URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_intelligence

Content: 
  ( ), in its broadest sense, is   exhibited by  , particularly  . It is a   in   that develops and studies methods and software which enable machines to   and uses   and intelligence to take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.  Such machines may be called AIs.
  is widely used  ,  , and science. Some high-profile applications include advanced   (e.g.,  );   (used by  ,  , and  ); interacting   (e.g.,  ,  , and  );   (e.g.,  );   and   tools (e.g.,   and  ); and   play and analysis in   (e.g.,   and  ).  However, many AI applications are not perceived as AI: "A lot of cutting edge AI has filtered into general applications, often without being called AI because once something becomes useful enough and common enough it's  ." 
  was the first person to conduct substantial research in the field that he called machine intelligence.  Artificial intelligence was founded as an academic discipline in 1956.  The field went through multiple cycles of optimism,  followed by periods of disappointment and loss of funding, known as  .  Funding and interest vastly increased after 2012 when   surpassed all previous AI techniques,  and after 2017 with the  .  This led to the   of the early 2020s, with companies, universities, and laboratories overwhelmingly based in the United States pioneering significant  . 
 The growing use of artificial intelligence in the 21st century is influencing   towards increased automation,  , and the   into various economic sectors and areas of life,  ,  , government, industry, and  . This raises questions about  ,  , and  , prompting discussions about   to ensure the  . 
 The various sub-fields of AI research are centered around particular goals and the use of particular tools. The traditional goals of AI research include  ,  ,  ,  ,  , perception, and support for  .   —the ability to complete any task performable by a human on an at least equal level—is among the field's long-term goals. 
 To reach these goals, AI researchers have adapted and integrated a wide range of techniques, including   and  ,  ,  , and methods based on  ,  , and  .  AI also draws upon  ,  ,  ,  , and other fields. 
 The general problem of simulating (or creating) intelligence has been broken into sub-problems. These consist of particular traits or capabilities that researchers expect an intelligent system to display. The traits described below have received the most attention and cover the scope of AI research. 
 Early researchers developed algorithms that imitated step-by-step reasoning that humans use when they solve puzzles or make logical  .  By the late 1980s and 1990s, methods were developed for dealing with   or incomplete information, employing concepts from   and  . 
 Many of these algorithms are insufficient for solving large reasoning problems because they experience a "combinatorial explosion": they became exponentially slower as the problems grew larger.  Even humans rarely use the step-by-step deduction that early AI research could model. They solve most of their problems using fast, intuitive judgments.  Accurate and efficient reasoning is an unsolved problem.
  and   allow AI programs to answer questions intelligently and make deductions about real-world facts. Formal knowledge representations are used in content-based indexing and retrieval,  scene interpretation,  clinical decision support,  knowledge discovery (mining "interesting" and actionable inferences from large  ),  and other areas. 
 A   is a body of knowledge represented in a form that can be used by a program. An   is the set of objects, relations, concepts, and properties used by a particular domain of knowledge.  Knowledge bases need to represent things such as: objects, properties, categories and relations between objects;  situations, events, states and time;  causes and effects;  knowledge about knowledge (what we know about what other people know);    (things that humans assume are true until they are told differently and will remain true even when other facts are changing);  and many other aspects and domains of knowledge.
 Among the most difficult problems in knowledge representation are: the breadth of commonsense knowledge (the set of atomic facts that the average person knows is enormous);  and the sub-symbolic form of most commonsense knowledge (much of what people know is not represented as "facts" or "statements" that they could express verbally).  There is also the difficulty of  , the problem of obtaining knowledge for AI applications. 
 An "agent" is anything that perceives and takes actions in the world. A   has goals or preferences and takes actions to make them happen.  In  , the agent has a specific goal.  In  , the agent has preferences—there are some situations it would prefer to be in, and some situations it is trying to avoid. The decision making agent assigns a number to each situation (called the " ") that measures how much the agent prefers it. For each possible action, it can calculate the " ": the   of all possible outcomes of the action, weighted by the probability that the outcome will occur. It can then choose the action with the maximum expected utility. 
 In  , the agent knows exactly what the effect of any action will be.  In most real-world problems, however, the agent may not be certain about the situation they are in (it is "unknown" or "unobservable") and it may not know for certain what will happen after each possible action (it is not "deterministic"). It must choose an action by making a probabilistic guess and then reassess the situation to see if the action worked. 
 In some problems, the agent's preferences may be uncertain, especially if there are other agents or humans involved. These can be learned (e.g., with  ) or the agent can seek information to improve its preferences.    can be used to weigh the value of exploratory or experimental actions.  The space of possible future actions and situations is typically   large, so the agents must take actions and evaluate situations while being uncertain what the outcome will be.
 A   has a   that describes the probability that a particular action will change the state in a particular way, and a   that supplies the utility of each state and the cost of each action. A   associates a decision with each possible state. The policy could be calculated (e.g., by  ), be  , or it can be learned. 
  describes rational behavior of multiple interacting agents, and is used in AI programs that make decisions that involve other agents. 
  is the study of programs that can improve their performance on a given task automatically.  It has been a part of AI from the beginning. 
 There are several kinds of machine learning.   analyzes a stream of data and finds patterns and makes predictions without any other guidance.    requires a human to label the input data first, and comes in two main varieties:   (where the program must learn to predict what category the input belongs in) and   (where the program must deduce a numeric function based on numeric input). 
 In   the agent is rewarded for good responses and punished for bad ones. The agent learns to choose responses that are classified as "good".    is when the knowledge gained from one problem is applied to a new problem.    is a type of machine learning that runs inputs through biologically inspired   for all of these types of learning. 
  can assess learners by  , by   (how much data is required), or by other notions of  . 
  (NLP)  allows programs to read, write and communicate in human languages such as  . Specific problems include  ,  ,  ,  ,   and  . 
 Early work, based on  's   and  , had difficulty with   unless restricted to small domains called " " (due to the common sense knowledge problem ).   believed that it was meaning and not grammar that was the key to understanding languages, and that   and not dictionaries should be the basis of computational language structure.
 Modern deep learning techniques for NLP include   (representing words, typically as   encoding their meaning),    (a deep learning architecture using an   mechanism),  and others.  In 2019,   (or "GPT") language models began to generate coherent text,  and by 2023 these models were able to get human-level scores on the  ,   test,   test, and many other real-world applications. 
  is the ability to use input from sensors (such as cameras, microphones, wireless signals, active  , sonar, radar, and  ) to deduce aspects of the world.   is the ability to analyze visual input. 
 The field includes  ,   ,   ,  ,  and  . 
  is an interdisciplinary umbrella that comprises systems that recognize, interpret, process or simulate human  .  For example, some   are programmed to speak conversationally or even to banter humorously; it makes them appear more sensitive to the emotional dynamics of human interaction, or to otherwise facilitate  .
 However, this tends to give naïve users an unrealistic conception of the intelligence of existing computer agents.  Moderate successes related to affective computing include textual   and, more recently,  , wherein AI classifies the affects displayed by a videotaped subject. 
 A machine with   should be able to solve a wide variety of problems with breadth and versatility similar to human intelligence. 
 AI research uses a wide variety of techniques to accomplish the goals above. 
 AI can solve many problems by intelligently searching through many possible solutions.  There are two very different kinds of search used in AI:   and  .
  searches through a tree of possible states to try to find a goal state.  For example,   algorithms search through trees of goals and subgoals, attempting to find a path to a target goal, a process called  . 
  are rarely sufficient for most real-world problems: the   (the number of places to search) quickly grows to  . The result is a search that is   or never completes.  " " or "rules of thumb" can help to prioritize choices that are more likely to reach a goal. 
  is used for   programs, such as chess or Go. It searches through a   of possible moves and counter-moves, looking for a winning position. 
  uses   to find a solution to a problem. It begins with some form of guess and refines it incrementally. 
  is a type of local search that optimizes a set of numerical parameters by incrementally adjusting them to minimize a  . Variants of gradient descent are commonly used to train neural networks. 
 Another type of local search is  , which aims to iteratively improve a set of candidate solutions by "mutating" and "recombining" them,   only the fittest to survive each generation. 
 Distributed search processes can coordinate via   algorithms. Two popular swarm algorithms used in search are   (inspired by bird  ) and   (inspired by  ). 
 Formal   is used for   and  . 
Formal logic comes in two main forms:   (which operates on statements that are true or false and uses   such as "and", "or", "not" and "implies")  and   (which also operates on objects, predicates and relations and uses   such as "    is a  " and "There are    s that are  s"). 
  in logic is the process of   a new statement ( ) from other statements that are given and assumed to be true (the  ).  Proofs can be structured as proof  , in which nodes are labelled by sentences, and children nodes are connected to  parent nodes by  .
 Given a problem and a set of premises, problem-solving reduces to searching for a proof tree whose root node is labelled by a solution of the problem and whose leaf nodes are labelled by premises or  . In the case of  , problem-solving search can be performed by reasoning   from the premises or   from the problem.  In the more general case of the clausal form of  ,   is a single, axiom-free rule of inference, in which a problem is solved by proving a contradiction from premises that include the negation of the problem to be solved. 
 Inference in both Horn clause logic and first-order logic is  , and therefore  . However, backward reasoning with Horn clauses, which underpins computation in the   language  , is  . Moreover, its efficiency is competitive with computation in other   languages. 
  assigns a "degree of truth" between 0 and 1. It can therefore handle propositions that are vague and partially true. 
 , including logic programming with  , are designed to handle  . 
Other specialized versions of logic have been developed to describe many complex domains.
 Many problems in AI (including in reasoning, planning, learning, perception, and robotics) require the agent to operate with incomplete or uncertain information. AI researchers have devised a number of tools to solve these problems using methods from   theory and economics.  Precise mathematical tools have been developed that analyze how an agent can make choices and plan, using  ,  ,  and  .  These tools include models such as  ,  dynamic  ,    and  . 
  are a tool that can be used for   (using the   algorithm),    (using the  ),    (using  )  and   (using  ). 
 
Probabilistic algorithms can also be used for filtering, prediction, smoothing and finding explanations for streams of data, helping   systems to analyze processes that occur over time (e.g.,   or  ). The simplest AI applications can be divided into two types: classifiers (e.g., "if shiny then diamond"), on one hand, and controllers (e.g., "if diamond then pick up"), on the other hand.   are functions that use   to determine the closest match. They can be fine-tuned based on chosen examples using  . Each pattern (also called an " ") is labeled with a certain predefined class. All the observations combined with their class labels are known as a  . When a new observation is received, that observation is classified based on previous experience. 
 There are many kinds of classifiers in use. The   is the simplest and most widely used symbolic machine learning algorithm.    algorithm was the most widely used analogical AI until the mid-1990s, and   such as the   (SVM) displaced k-nearest neighbor in the 1990s. 
The   is reportedly the "most widely used learner"  at Google, due in part to its scalability. 
  are also used as classifiers. 
 An artificial neural network is based on a collection of nodes also known as  , which loosely model the   in a biological brain. It is trained to recognise patterns; once trained, it can recognise those patterns in fresh data. There is an input, at least one hidden layer of nodes and an output. Each node applies a function and once the   crosses its specified threshold, the data is transmitted to the next layer. A network is typically called a deep neural network if it has at least 2 hidden layers. 
 Learning algorithms for neural networks use   to choose the weights that will get the right output for each input during training. The most common training technique is the   algorithm. 
Neural networks learn to model complex relationships between inputs and outputs and   in data. In theory, a neural network can learn any function. 
 In   the signal passes in only one direction.    feed the output signal back into the input, which allows short-term memories of previous input events.   is the most successful network architecture for recurrent networks. 
 
use only a single layer of neurons, deep learning  uses multiple layers.
  strengthen the connection between neurons that are "close" to each other—this is especially important in  , where a local set of neurons must   before the network can identify an object. 
 Deep learning 
uses several layers of neurons between the network's inputs and outputs. The multiple layers can progressively extract higher-level features from the raw input. For example, in  , lower layers may identify edges, while higher layers may identify the concepts relevant to a human such as digits or letters or faces. 
 Deep learning has profoundly improved the performance of programs in many important subfields of artificial intelligence, including  ,  ,  ,   and others. The reason that deep learning performs so well in so many applications is not known as of 2023. 
The sudden success of deep learning in 2012–2015 did not occur because of some new discovery or theoretical breakthrough (deep neural networks and backpropagation had been described by many people, as far back as the 1950s) 
but because of two factors: the incredible increase in computer power (including the hundred-fold increase in speed by switching to  ) and the availability of vast amounts of training data, especially the giant   used for benchmark testing, such as  . 
  (GPT) are   that are based on the semantic relationships between words in sentences ( ). Text-based GPT models are pre-trained on a large corpus of text which can be from the internet. The pre-training consists in predicting the next   (a token being usually a word, subword, or punctuation). Throughout this pre-training, GPT models accumulate knowledge about the world, and can then generate human-like text by repeatedly predicting the next token. Typically, a subsequent training phase makes the model more truthful, useful and harmless, usually with a technique called   (RLHF). Current GPT models are still prone to generating falsehoods called " ", although this can be reduced with RLHF and quality data. They are used in  , which allow you to ask a question or request a task in simple text. 
 Current models and services include:   (formerly Bard),  ,  ,  ,   and  .    GPT models can process different types of data ( ) such as images, videos, sound and text. 
 In the late 2010s,   (GPUs) that were increasingly designed with AI-specific enhancements and used with specialized   software, had replaced previously used   (CPUs) as the dominant means for large-scale (commercial and academic)   models' training.  Historically, specialized languages, such as  ,  ,   and others, had been used.
 AI and machine learning technology is used in most of the essential applications of the 2020s, including:   (such as  ),  ,   (offered by  ,   or  ), driving  ,   ( ,  ),   (such as   or  ),   (including  ,   and  ),   ( ,  ),   ( 's   or  's   and  's  ) and   (used by  , Apple's   and  ).
 The application of AI in   and   has the potential to increase patient care and quality of life.  Through the lens of the  , medical professionals are ethically compelled to use AI, if applications can more accurately diagnose and treat patients.
 For medical research, AI is an important tool for processing and integrating  . This is particularly important for   and   development which use   imaging as a key technique in fabrication.  It has been suggested that AI can overcome discrepancies in funding allocated to different fields of research.  New AI tools can deepen the understanding of biomedically relevant pathways. For example,   (2021) demonstrated the ability to approximate, in hours rather than months, the 3D  .  In 2023, it was reported that AI-guided drug discovery helped find a class of antibiotics capable of killing two different types of drug-resistant bacteria.  In 2024, researchers used machine learning to accelerate the search for   drug treatments. Their aim was to identify compounds that block the clumping, or aggregation, of   (the protein that characterises Parkinson's disease). They were able to speed up the initial screening process ten-fold, and to reduce the cost by a thousand-fold. 
  programs have been used since the 1950s to demonstrate and test AI's most advanced techniques.    became the first computer chess-playing system to beat a reigning world chess champion,  , on 11 May 1997.  In 2011, in a     exhibition match,  's  ,  , defeated the two greatest   champions,   and  , by a significant margin.  In March 2016,   won 4 out of 5 games of   in a match with Go champion  , becoming the first  -playing system to beat a professional Go player without  . Then in 2017 it  , who was the best Go player in the world.  Other programs handle   games, such as the  -playing program  .    developed increasingly generalistic   models, such as with  , which could be trained to play chess, Go, or   games.  In 2019, DeepMind's AlphaStar achieved grandmaster level in  , a particularly challenging real-time strategy game that involves incomplete knowledge of what happens on the map.  In 2021, an AI agent competed in a PlayStation Gran Turismo competition, winning against four of the world's best Gran Turismo drivers using deep reinforcement learning. 
 Various countries are deploying AI military applications.  The main applications enhance  , communications, sensors, integration and interoperability.  Research is targeting intelligence collection and analysis, logistics, cyber operations, information operations, and semiautonomous and  .  AI technologies enable coordination of sensors and effectors, threat detection and identification, marking of enemy positions,  , coordination and deconfliction of distributed   between networked combat vehicles involving manned and unmanned teams.  AI was incorporated into military operations in Iraq and Syria. 
 In November 2023, US Vice President   disclosed a declaration signed by 31 nations to set guardrails for the military use of AI. The commitments include using legal reviews to ensure the compliance of military AI with international laws, and being cautious and transparent in the development of this technology. 
 In the early 2020s,   gained widespread prominence. In March 2023, 58% of U.S. adults had heard about   and 14% had tried it.  The increasing realism and ease-of-use of AI-based   generators such as  ,  , and   sparked a trend of   AI-generated photos. Widespread attention was gained by a fake photo of   wearing a white puffer coat, the fictional arrest of  , and a hoax of an attack on the  , as well as the usage in professional creative arts. 
 There are also thousands of successful AI applications used to solve specific problems for specific industries or institutions. In a 2017 survey, one in five companies reported they had incorporated "AI" in some offerings or processes.  A few examples are  , medical diagnosis, military logistics, applications that predict the result of judicial decisions,  , or supply chain management.
 In agriculture, AI has helped farmers identify areas that need irrigation, fertilization, pesticide treatments or increasing yield. Agronomists use AI to conduct research and development. AI has been used to predict the ripening time for crops such as tomatoes, monitor soil moisture, operate agricultural robots, conduct predictive analytics, classify livestock pig call emotions, automate greenhouses, detect diseases and pests, and save water.
 Artificial intelligence is used in astronomy to analyze increasing amounts of available data and applications, mainly for "classification, regression, clustering, forecasting, generation, discovery, and the development of new scientific insights" for example for discovering exoplanets, forecasting solar activity, and distinguishing between signals and instrumental effects in gravitational wave astronomy. It could also be used for activities in space such as space exploration, including analysis of data from space missions, real-time science decisions of spacecraft, space debris avoidance, and more autonomous operation.
 AI has potential benefits and potential risks. AI may be able to advance science and find solutions for serious problems:   of   hopes to "solve intelligence, and then use that to solve everything else".  However, as the use of AI has become widespread, several unintended consequences and risks have been identified.  In-production systems can sometimes not factor ethics and bias into their AI training processes, especially when the AI algorithms are inherently unexplainable in deep learning. 
 Machine-learning algorithms require large amounts of data. The techniques used to acquire this data have raised concerns about  ,   and  .
 Technology companies collect a wide range of data from their users, including online activity, geolocation data, video and audio. 
For example, in order to build   algorithms,   has recorded millions of private conversations and allowed   to listen to and transcribe some of them.  Opinions about this widespread   range from those who see it as a   to those for whom it is clearly   and a violation of the  . 
 AI developers argue that this is the only way to deliver valuable applications. and have developed several techniques that attempt to preserve privacy while still obtaining the data, such as  ,   and  .  Since 2016, some privacy experts, such as  , have begun to view privacy in terms of  .   wrote that experts have pivoted "from the question of 'what they know' to the question of 'what they're doing with it'." 
 Generative AI is often trained on unlicensed copyrighted works, including in domains such as images or computer code; the output is then used under the rationale of " ". Website owners who do not wish to have their copyrighted content AI-indexed or 'scraped' can add code to their site if they do not want their website to be indexed by a search engine, which is currently available through certain services such as  . Experts disagree about how well and under what circumstances this rationale will hold up in courts of law; relevant factors may include "the purpose and character of the use of the copyrighted work" and "the effect upon the potential market for the copyrighted work".  In 2023, leading authors (including   and  ) sued AI companies for using their work to train generative AI. 
 ,   and others use   to guide users to more content. These AI programs were given the goal of   user engagement (that is, the only goal was to keep people watching). The AI learned that users tended to choose  ,  , and extreme   content, and, to keep them watching, the AI recommended more of it. Users also tended to watch more content on the same subject, so the AI led people into   where they received multiple versions of the same misinformation.  This convinced many users that the misinformation was true, and ultimately undermined trust in institutions, the media and the government.  The AI program had correctly learned to maximize its goal, but the result was harmful to society. After the U.S. election in 2016, major technology companies took steps to mitigate the problem.
 In 2022,   began to create images, audio, video and text that are indistinguishable from real photographs, recordings, films or human writing. It is possible for bad actors to use this technology to create massive amounts of misinformation or propaganda.  AI pioneer   expressed concern about AI enabling "authoritarian leaders to manipulate their electorates" on a large scale, among other risks. 
 Machine learning applications will be biased if they learn from biased data.  The developers may not be aware that the bias exists. 
Bias can be introduced by the way   is selected and by the way a model is deployed.  If a biased algorithm is used to make decisions that can seriously   people (as it can in  ,  ,  ,   or  ) then the algorithm may cause  . 
  in machine learning is the study of how to prevent the harm caused by algorithmic bias. It has become serious area of academic study within AI. Researchers have discovered it is not always possible to define "fairness" in a way that satisfies all stakeholders. 
 On June 28, 2015,  's new image labeling feature mistakenly identified Jacky Alcine and a friend as "gorillas" because they were black. The system was trained on a dataset that contained very few images of black people,  a problem called "sample size disparity".  Google "fixed" this problem by preventing the system from labelling   as a "gorilla". Eight years later, in 2023, Google Photos still could not identify a gorilla, and neither could similar products from Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Amazon. 
  is a commercial program widely used by   to assess the likelihood of a   becoming a  .
In 2016,   at   discovered that COMPAS exhibited racial bias, despite the fact that the program was not told the races of the defendants. Although the error rate for both whites and blacks was calibrated equal at exactly 61%, the errors for each race were different—the system consistently overestimated the chance that a black person would re-offend and would underestimate the chance that a white person would not re-offend.  In 2017, several researchers  showed that it was mathematically impossible for COMPAS to accommodate all possible measures of fairness when the base rates of re-offense were different for whites and blacks in the data. 
 A program can make biased decisions even if the data does not explicitly mention a problematic feature (such as "race" or "gender"). The feature will correlate with other features (like "address", "shopping history" or "first name"), and the program will make the same decisions based on these features as it would on "race" or "gender". 
Moritz Hardt said "the most robust fact in this research area is that fairness through blindness doesn't work." 
 Criticism of COMPAS highlighted that machine learning models are designed to make "predictions" that are only valid if we assume that the future will resemble the past. If they are trained on data that includes the results of racist decisions in the past, machine learning models must predict that racist decisions will be made in the future. If an application then uses these predictions as  , some of these "recommendations" will likely be racist.  Thus, machine learning is not well suited to help make decisions in areas where there is hope that the future will be   than the past. It is necessarily descriptive and not proscriptive. 
 Bias and unfairness may go undetected because the developers are overwhelmingly white and male: among AI engineers, about 4% are black and 20% are women. 
 At its 2022   (ACM FAccT 2022), the  , in Seoul, South Korea, presented and published findings that recommend that until AI and robotics systems are demonstrated to be free of bias mistakes, they are unsafe, and the use of self-learning neural networks trained on vast, unregulated sources of flawed internet data should be curtailed. 
 Many AI systems are so complex that their designers cannot explain how they reach their decisions.  Particularly with  , in which there are a large amount of non-  relationships between inputs and outputs. But some popular explainability techniques exist. 
 It is impossible to be certain that a program is operating correctly if no one knows how exactly it works. There have been many cases where a machine learning program passed rigorous tests, but nevertheless learned something different than what the programmers intended. For example, a system that could identify skin diseases better than medical professionals was found to actually have a strong tendency to classify images with a   as "cancerous", because pictures of malignancies typically include a ruler to show the scale.  Another machine learning system designed to help effectively allocate medical resources was found to classify patients with asthma as being at "low risk" of dying from pneumonia. Having asthma is actually a severe risk factor, but since the patients having asthma would usually get much more medical care, they were relatively unlikely to die according to the training data. The correlation between asthma and low risk of dying from pneumonia was real, but misleading. 
 People who have been harmed by an algorithm's decision have a right to an explanation.  Doctors, for example, are expected to clearly and completely explain to their colleagues the reasoning behind any decision they make. Early drafts of the European Union's   in 2016 included an explicit statement that this right exists.  Industry experts noted that this is an unsolved problem with no solution in sight. Regulators argued that nevertheless the harm is real: if the problem has no solution, the tools should not be used. 
  established the   ("Explainable Artificial Intelligence") program in 2014 to try and solve these problems.  
 There are several possible solutions to the transparency problem. SHAP tried to solve the transparency problems by visualising the contribution of each feature to the output.  LIME can locally approximate a model with a simpler, interpretable model.    provides a large number of outputs in addition to the target classification. These other outputs can help developers deduce what the network has learned.   ,   and other   methods can allow developers to see what different layers of a deep network have learned and produce output that can suggest what the network is learning. 
 Artificial intelligence provides a number of tools that are useful to  , such as  ,  ,   or  .
 A lethal autonomous weapon is a machine that locates, selects and engages human targets without human supervision.  Widely available AI tools can be used by bad actors to develop inexpensive autonomous weapons and, if produced at scale, they are potentially  .  Even when used in conventional warfare, it is unlikely that they will be unable to reliably choose targets and could potentially  .  In 2014, 30 nations (including China) supported a ban on autonomous weapons under the  '  , however the   and others disagreed.  By 2015, over fifty countries were reported to be researching battlefield robots. 
 AI tools make it easier for   to efficiently control their citizens in several ways.   and   allow widespread  .  , operating this data, can   potential enemies of the state and prevent them from hiding.   can precisely target   and   for maximum effect.   and   aid in producing misinformation. Advanced AI can make authoritarian   more competitive than liberal and decentralized systems such as  . It lowers the cost and difficulty of   and  .  All these technologies have been available since 2020 or earlier—AI   are already being used for   in China. 
 There many other ways that AI is expected to help bad actors, some of which can not be foreseen. For example, machine-learning AI is able to design tens of thousands of toxic molecules in a matter of hours. 
 Training AI systems requires an enormous amount of computing power. Usually only   companies have the financial resources to make such investments. Smaller startups such as   and   end up buying access to   from   and   respectively. 
 Economists have frequently highlighted the risks of redundancies from AI, and speculated about unemployment if there is no adequate social policy for full employment. 
 In the past, technology has tended to increase rather than reduce total employment, but economists acknowledge that "we're in uncharted territory" with AI.  A survey of economists showed disagreement about whether the increasing use of robots and AI will cause a substantial increase in long-term  , but they generally agree that it could be a net benefit if   gains are  .  Risk estimates vary; for example, in the 2010s, Michael Osborne and   estimated 47% of U.S. jobs are at "high risk" of potential automation, while an OECD report classified only 9% of U.S. jobs as "high risk".  The methodology of speculating about future employment levels has been criticised as lacking evidential foundation, and for implying that technology, rather than social policy, creates unemployment, as opposed to redundancies.  In April 2023, it was reported that 70% of the jobs for Chinese video game illustrators had been eliminated by generative artificial intelligence. 
 Unlike previous waves of automation, many middle-class jobs may be eliminated by artificial intelligence;   stated in 2015 that "the worry that AI could do to white-collar jobs what steam power did to blue-collar ones during the Industrial Revolution" is "worth taking seriously".  Jobs at extreme risk range from   to fast food cooks, while job demand is likely to increase for care-related professions ranging from personal healthcare to the clergy. 
 From the early days of the development of artificial intelligence, there have been arguments, for example, those put forward by  , about whether tasks that can be done by computers actually should be done by them, given the difference between computers and humans, and between quantitative calculation and qualitative, value-based judgement. 
 It has been argued AI will become so powerful that humanity may irreversibly lose control of it. This could, as physicist   stated, " ".  This scenario has been common in science fiction, when a computer or robot suddenly develops a human-like "self-awareness" (or "sentience" or "consciousness") and becomes a malevolent character.  These sci-fi scenarios are misleading in several ways.
 First, AI does not require human-like " " to be an existential risk. Modern AI programs are given specific goals and use learning and intelligence to achieve them. Philosopher   argued that if one gives   goal to a sufficiently powerful AI, it may choose to destroy humanity to achieve it (he used the example of a  ).    gives the example of household robot that tries to find a way to kill its owner to prevent it from being unplugged, reasoning that "you can't fetch the coffee if you're dead."  In order to be safe for humanity, a   would have to be genuinely   with humanity's morality and values so that it is "fundamentally on our side". 
 Second,   argues that AI does not require a robot body or physical control to pose an existential risk. The essential parts of civilization are not physical. Things like  ,  ,  ,   and the   are made of  ; they exist because there are stories that billions of people believe. The current prevalence of   suggests that an AI could use language to convince people to believe anything, even to take actions that are destructive. 
 The opinions amongst experts and industry insiders are mixed, with sizable fractions both concerned and unconcerned by risk from eventual superintelligent AI.  Personalities such as  ,  , and   have expressed concern about existential risk from AI. 
AI pioneers including  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and   have expressed concerns about the risks of AI. In 2023, many leading AI experts issued the joint statement that "Mitigating the risk of extinction from AI should be a global priority alongside other societal-scale risks such as pandemics and nuclear war". 
 Other researchers, however, spoke in favor of a less dystopian view. AI pioneer   did not sign the joint statement, emphasising that in 95% of all cases, AI research is about making "human lives longer and healthier and easier."  While the tools that are now being used to improve lives can also be used by bad actors, "they can also be used against the bad actors."    also argued that "it's a mistake to fall for the doomsday hype on AI—and that regulators who do will only benefit vested interests."    "scoffs at his peers' dystopian scenarios of supercharged misinformation and even, eventually, human extinction."  In the early 2010s, experts argued that the risks are too distant in the future to warrant research or that humans will be valuable from the perspective of a superintelligent machine.  However, after 2016, the study of current and future risks and possible solutions became a serious area of research. 
 Friendly AI are machines that have been designed from the beginning to minimize risks and to make choices that benefit humans.  , who coined the term, argues that developing friendly AI should be a higher research priority: it may require a large investment and it must be completed before AI becomes an existential risk. 
 Machines with intelligence have the potential to use their intelligence to make ethical decisions. The field of machine ethics provides machines with ethical principles and procedures for resolving ethical dilemmas. 
The field of machine ethics is also called computational morality, 
and was founded at an   symposium in 2005. 
 Other approaches include  's "artificial moral agents"  and  's   for developing provably beneficial machines. 
 Active organizations in the AI open-source community include  ,   ,    and  .  Various AI models, such as  ,   or  , have been made open-weight,  meaning that their architecture and trained parameters (the "weights") are publicly available. Open-weight models can be freely  , which allows companies to specialize them with their own data and for their own use-case.  Open-weight models are useful for research and innovation, but can also be misused. Since they can be fine-tuned, any built-in security measure, such as objecting to harmful requests, can be trained away until it becomes ineffective. Some researchers warn that future AI models may develop dangerous capabilities (such as the potential to drastically facilitate  ), and that once released on the Internet, they can't be deleted everywhere if needed. They recommend pre-release audits and cost-benefit analyses. 
 Artificial Intelligence projects can have their ethical permissibility tested while designing, developing, and implementing an AI system. An AI framework such as the Care and Act Framework containing the SUM values—developed by the   tests projects in four main areas: 
 Other developments in ethical frameworks include those decided upon during the  , the Montreal Declaration for Responsible AI, and the IEEE's Ethics of Autonomous Systems initiative, among others;  however, these principles do not go without their criticisms, especially regards to the people chosen contributes to these frameworks. 
 Promotion of the wellbeing of the people and communities that these technologies affect requires consideration of the social and ethical implications at all stages of AI system design, development and implementation, and collaboration between job roles such as data scientists, product managers, data engineers, domain experts, and delivery managers. 
 The regulation of artificial intelligence is the development of public sector policies and laws for promoting and regulating artificial intelligence (AI); it is therefore related to the broader regulation of algorithms.  The regulatory and policy landscape for AI is an emerging issue in jurisdictions globally.  According to AI Index at  , the annual number of AI-related laws passed in the 127 survey countries jumped from one passed in 2016 to 37 passed in 2022 alone.  Between 2016 and 2020, more than 30 countries adopted dedicated strategies for AI.  Most EU member states had released national AI strategies, as had Canada, China, India, Japan, Mauritius, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, U.S., and Vietnam. Others were in the process of elaborating their own AI strategy, including Bangladesh, Malaysia and Tunisia.  The   was launched in June 2020, stating a need for AI to be developed in accordance with human rights and democratic values, to ensure public confidence and trust in the technology.   ,  , and   published a joint statement in November 2021 calling for a government commission to regulate AI.  In 2023, OpenAI leaders published recommendations for the governance of superintelligence, which they believe may happen in less than 10 years.  In 2023, the United Nations also launched an advisory body to provide recommendations on AI governance; the body comprises technology company executives, governments officials and academics. 
 In a 2022   survey, attitudes towards AI varied greatly by country; 78% of Chinese citizens, but only 35% of Americans, agreed that "products and services using AI have more benefits than drawbacks".  A 2023  /Ipsos poll found that 61% of Americans agree, and 22% disagree, that AI poses risks to humanity.  In a 2023   poll, 35% of Americans thought it "very important", and an additional 41% thought it "somewhat important", for the federal government to regulate AI, versus 13% responding "not very important" and 8% responding "not at all important". 
 In November 2023, the first global   was held in   in the UK to discuss the near and far term risks of AI and the possibility of mandatory and voluntary regulatory frameworks.  28 countries including the United States, China, and the European Union issued a declaration at the start of the summit, calling for international co-operation to manage the challenges and risks of artificial intelligence. 
 The study of mechanical or "formal" reasoning began with philosophers and mathematicians in antiquity. The study of logic led directly to  's  , which suggested that a machine, by shuffling symbols as simple as "0" and "1", could simulate any conceivable form of mathematical reasoning.  This, along with concurrent discoveries in  ,   and  , led researchers to consider the possibility of building an "electronic brain".  
They developed several areas of research that would become part of AI, 
such as   and   design for "artificial neurons" in 1943,  and Turing's influential 1950 paper ' ', which introduced the   and showed that "machine intelligence" was plausible. 
 The field of AI research was founded at   at   in 1956.  The attendees became the leaders of AI research in the 1960s.  They and their students produced programs that the press described as "astonishing":  computers were learning   strategies, solving word problems in algebra, proving   and speaking English.  Artificial intelligence laboratories were set up at a number of British and U.S. Universities in the latter 1950s and early 1960s. 
 Researchers in the 1960s and the 1970s were convinced that their methods would eventually succeed in creating a machine with   and considered this the goal of their field.    predicted, "machines will be capable, within twenty years, of doing any work a man can do".    agreed, writing, "within a generation ... the problem of creating 'artificial intelligence' will substantially be solved".  They had, however, underestimated the difficulty of the problem.  In 1974, both the U.S. and British governments cut off exploratory research in response to the   of   and ongoing pressure from the U.S. Congress to  .   's and  's book   was understood as proving that   would never be useful for solving real-world tasks, thus discrediting the approach altogether.  The " ", a period when obtaining funding for AI projects was difficult, followed. 
 In the early 1980s, AI research was revived by the commercial success of  ,  a form of AI program that simulated the knowledge and analytical skills of human experts. By 1985, the market for AI had reached over a billion dollars. At the same time, Japan's   project inspired the U.S. and British governments to restore funding for  .  However, beginning with the collapse of the   market in 1987, AI once again fell into disrepute, and a second, longer-lasting winter began. 
 Up to this point, most of AI's funding had gone to projects which used high level   to represent   like plans, goals, beliefs and known facts. In the 1980s, some researchers began to doubt that this approach would be able to imitate all the processes of human cognition, especially  ,  ,   and  ,  and began to look into "sub-symbolic" approaches.    rejected "representation" in general and focussed directly on engineering machines that move and survive.   ,   and others developed methods that handled incomplete and uncertain information by making reasonable guesses rather than precise logic.  But the most important development was the revival of " ", including neural network research, by   and others.  In 1990,   successfully showed that   can recognize handwritten digits, the first of many successful applications of neural networks. 
 AI gradually restored its reputation in the late 1990s and early 21st century by exploiting formal mathematical methods and by finding specific solutions to specific problems. This " " and "formal" focus allowed researchers to produce verifiable results and collaborate with other fields (such as  ,   and  ).  By 2000, solutions developed by AI researchers were being widely used, although in the 1990s they were rarely described as "artificial intelligence". 
However, several academic researchers became concerned that AI was no longer pursuing its original goal of creating versatile, fully intelligent machines. Beginning around 2002, they founded the subfield of   (or "AGI"), which had several well-funded institutions by the 2010s. 
  began to dominate industry benchmarks in 2012 and was adopted throughout the field. 
For many specific tasks, other methods were abandoned. 
Deep learning's success was based on both hardware improvements ( ,   ,  ) and access to   (including curated datasets,  such as  ). Deep learning's success led to an enormous increase in interest and funding in AI.  The amount of machine learning research (measured by total publications) increased by 50% in the years 2015–2019. 
 In 2016, issues of   and the misuse of technology were catapulted into center stage at machine learning conferences, publications vastly increased, funding became available, and many researchers re-focussed their careers on these issues. The   became a serious field of academic study. 
 In the late teens and early 2020s,   companies began to deliver programs that created enormous interest. In 2015,  , developed by  , beat the world champion  . The program was taught only the rules of the game and developed strategy by itself.   is a   that was released in 2020 by   and is capable of generating high-quality human-like text.  These programs, and others, inspired an aggressive  , where large companies began investing billions in AI research. According to 'AI Impacts', about $50 billion annually was invested in "AI" around 2022 in the U.S. alone and about 20% of the new U.S. Computer Science PhD graduates have specialized in "AI". 
About 800,000 "AI"-related U.S. job openings existed in 2022. 
  wrote in 1950 "I propose to consider the question 'can machines think'?"  He advised changing the question from whether a machine "thinks", to "whether or not it is possible for machinery to show intelligent behaviour".  He devised the Turing test, which measures the ability of a machine to simulate human conversation.  Since we can only observe the behavior of the machine, it does not matter if it is "actually" thinking or literally has a "mind". Turing notes that   but "it is usual to have a polite convention that everyone thinks" 
  and   agree with Turing that intelligence must be defined in terms of external behavior, not internal structure.  However, they are critical that the test requires the machine to imitate humans. "  texts," they wrote, "do not define the goal of their field as making 'machines that fly so exactly like   that they can fool other pigeons. "  AI founder   agreed, writing that "Artificial intelligence is not, by definition, simulation of human intelligence". 
 McCarthy defines intelligence as "the computational part of the ability to achieve goals in the world."  Another AI founder,   similarly describes it as "the ability to solve hard problems".  The leading AI textbook defines it as the study of agents that perceive their environment and take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.  These definitions view intelligence in terms of well-defined problems with well-defined solutions, where both the difficulty of the problem and the performance of the program are direct measures of the "intelligence" of the machine—and no other philosophical discussion is required, or may not even be possible.
 Another definition has been adopted by Google,  a major practitioner in the field of AI. This definition stipulates the ability of systems to synthesize information as the manifestation of intelligence, similar to the way it is defined in biological intelligence.
 No established unifying theory or   has guided AI research for most of its history.  The unprecedented success of statistical machine learning in the 2010s eclipsed all other approaches (so much so that some sources, especially in the business world, use the term "artificial intelligence" to mean "machine learning with neural networks"). This approach is mostly  ,   and  . Critics argue that these questions may have to be revisited by future generations of AI researchers.
  (or " ")  simulated the high-level conscious reasoning that people use when they solve puzzles, express legal reasoning and do mathematics. They were highly successful at "intelligent" tasks such as algebra or IQ tests. In the 1960s, Newell and Simon proposed the  : "A physical symbol system has the necessary and sufficient means of general intelligent action." 
 However, the symbolic approach failed on many tasks that humans solve easily, such as learning, recognizing an object or commonsense reasoning.   is the discovery that high-level "intelligent" tasks were easy for AI, but low level "instinctive" tasks were extremely difficult.  Philosopher   had   since the 1960s that human expertise depends on unconscious instinct rather than conscious symbol manipulation, and on having a "feel" for the situation, rather than explicit symbolic knowledge.  Although his arguments had been ridiculed and ignored when they were first presented, eventually, AI research came to agree with him. 
 The issue is not resolved:   reasoning can make many of the same inscrutable mistakes that human intuition does, such as  . Critics such as   argue continuing research into symbolic AI will still be necessary to attain general intelligence,  in part because sub-symbolic AI is a move away from  : it can be difficult or impossible to understand why a modern statistical AI program made a particular decision. The emerging field of   attempts to bridge the two approaches.
 "Neats" hope that intelligent behavior is described using simple, elegant principles (such as  ,  , or  ). "Scruffies" expect that it necessarily requires solving a large number of unrelated problems. Neats defend their programs with theoretical rigor, scruffies rely mainly on incremental testing to see if they work. This issue was actively discussed in the 1970s and 1980s,  but eventually was seen as irrelevant. Modern AI has elements of both.
 Finding a provably correct or optimal solution is   for many important problems.  Soft computing is a set of techniques, including  ,   and neural networks, that are tolerant of imprecision, uncertainty, partial truth and approximation. Soft computing was introduced in the late 1980s and most successful AI programs in the 21st century are examples of soft computing with neural networks.
 AI researchers are divided as to whether to pursue the goals of artificial general intelligence and   directly or to solve as many specific problems as possible (narrow AI) in hopes these solutions will lead indirectly to the field's long-term goals.  General intelligence is difficult to define and difficult to measure, and modern AI has had more verifiable successes by focusing on specific problems with specific solutions. The experimental sub-field of artificial general intelligence studies this area exclusively.
 The   does not know whether a machine can have a  ,   and  , in the same sense that human beings do. This issue considers the internal experiences of the machine, rather than its external behavior. Mainstream AI research considers this issue irrelevant because it does not affect the goals of the field: to build machines that can solve problems using intelligence.   and   add that "[t]he additional project of making a machine conscious in exactly the way humans are is not one that we are equipped to take on."  However, the question has become central to the philosophy of mind. It is also typically the central question at issue in  .
  identified two problems in understanding the mind, which he named the "hard" and "easy" problems of consciousness.  The easy problem is understanding how the brain processes signals, makes plans and controls behavior. The hard problem is explaining how this   or why it should feel like anything at all, assuming we are right in thinking that it truly does feel like something (Dennett's consciousness illusionism says this is an illusion). Human   is easy to explain, however, human   is difficult to explain. For example, it is easy to imagine a color-blind person who has learned to identify which objects in their field of view are red, but it is not clear what would be required for the person to  . 
 Computationalism is the position in the   that the human mind is an information processing system and that thinking is a form of computing. Computationalism argues that the relationship between mind and body is similar or identical to the relationship between software and hardware and thus may be a solution to the  . This philosophical position was inspired by the work of AI researchers and cognitive scientists in the 1960s and was originally proposed by philosophers   and  . 
 Philosopher   characterized this position as " ": "The appropriately programmed computer with the right inputs and outputs would thereby have a mind in exactly the same sense human beings have minds."  Searle counters this assertion with his Chinese room argument, which attempts to show that, even if a machine perfectly simulates human behavior, there is still no reason to suppose it also has a mind. 
 It is difficult or impossible to reliably evaluate whether an advanced   (has the ability to feel), and if so, to what degree.  But if there is a significant chance that a given machine can feel and suffer, then it may be entitled to certain rights or welfare protection measures, similarly to animals.    (a set of capacities related to high intelligence, such as discernment or  ) may provide another moral basis for AI rights.    are also sometimes proposed as a practical way to integrate autonomous agents into society. 
 In 2017, the European Union considered granting "electronic personhood" to some of the most capable AI systems. Similarly to the legal status of companies, it would have conferred rights but also responsibilities.  Critics argued in 2018 that granting rights to AI systems would downplay the importance of  , and that legislation should focus on user needs rather than speculative futuristic scenarios. They also noted that robots lacked the autonomy to take part to society on their own. 
 Progress in AI increased interest in the topic. Proponents of AI welfare and rights often argue that AI sentience, if it emerges, would be particularly easy to deny. They warn that this may be a   analogous to   or  , which could lead to   if sentient AI is created and carelessly exploited. 
 A   is a hypothetical agent that would possess intelligence far surpassing that of the brightest and most gifted human mind. 
 If research into   produced sufficiently intelligent software, it might be able to  . The improved software would be even better at improving itself, leading to what   called an " " and   called a " ". 
 However, technologies cannot improve exponentially indefinitely, and typically follow an  , slowing when they reach the physical limits of what the technology can do. 
 Robot designer  , cyberneticist  , and inventor   have predicted that humans and machines will merge in the future into   that are more capable and powerful than either. This idea, called transhumanism, has roots in   and  . 
  argues that "artificial intelligence is the next stage in evolution", an idea first proposed by  's " " as far back as 1863, and expanded upon by   in his book of the same name in 1998. 
 Thought-capable artificial beings have appeared as storytelling devices since antiquity,  and have been a persistent theme in  . 
 A common   in these works began with  's  , where a human creation becomes a threat to its masters. This includes such works as   and     (both 1968), with  , the murderous computer in charge of the   spaceship, as well as   (1984) and   (1999). In contrast, the rare loyal robots such as Gort from   (1951) and Bishop from   (1986) are less prominent in popular culture. 
  introduced the   in many books and stories, most notably the "Multivac" series about a super-intelligent computer of the same name. Asimov's laws are often brought up during lay discussions of machine ethics;  while almost all artificial intelligence researchers are familiar with Asimov's laws through popular culture, they generally consider the laws useless for many reasons, one of which is their ambiguity. 
 Several works use AI to force us to confront the fundamental question of what makes us human, showing us artificial beings that have  , and thus to suffer. This appears in  's  , the films   and  , as well as the novel  , by  . Dick considers the idea that our understanding of human subjectivity is altered by technology created with artificial intelligence. 
 The two most widely used textbooks in 2023. (See the  ).
 These were the four of the most widely used AI textbooks in 2008:
 Later editions.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_intelligence

Content: 
  ( ), in its broadest sense, is   exhibited by  , particularly  . It is a   in   that develops and studies methods and software which enable machines to   and uses   and intelligence to take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.  Such machines may be called AIs.
  is widely used  ,  , and science. Some high-profile applications include advanced   (e.g.,  );   (used by  ,  , and  ); interacting   (e.g.,  ,  , and  );   (e.g.,  );   and   tools (e.g.,   and  ); and   play and analysis in   (e.g.,   and  ).  However, many AI applications are not perceived as AI: "A lot of cutting edge AI has filtered into general applications, often without being called AI because once something becomes useful enough and common enough it's  ." 
  was the first person to conduct substantial research in the field that he called machine intelligence.  Artificial intelligence was founded as an academic discipline in 1956.  The field went through multiple cycles of optimism,  followed by periods of disappointment and loss of funding, known as  .  Funding and interest vastly increased after 2012 when   surpassed all previous AI techniques,  and after 2017 with the  .  This led to the   of the early 2020s, with companies, universities, and laboratories overwhelmingly based in the United States pioneering significant  . 
 The growing use of artificial intelligence in the 21st century is influencing   towards increased automation,  , and the   into various economic sectors and areas of life,  ,  , government, industry, and  . This raises questions about  ,  , and  , prompting discussions about   to ensure the  . 
 The various sub-fields of AI research are centered around particular goals and the use of particular tools. The traditional goals of AI research include  ,  ,  ,  ,  , perception, and support for  .   —the ability to complete any task performable by a human on an at least equal level—is among the field's long-term goals. 
 To reach these goals, AI researchers have adapted and integrated a wide range of techniques, including   and  ,  ,  , and methods based on  ,  , and  .  AI also draws upon  ,  ,  ,  , and other fields. 
 The general problem of simulating (or creating) intelligence has been broken into sub-problems. These consist of particular traits or capabilities that researchers expect an intelligent system to display. The traits described below have received the most attention and cover the scope of AI research. 
 Early researchers developed algorithms that imitated step-by-step reasoning that humans use when they solve puzzles or make logical  .  By the late 1980s and 1990s, methods were developed for dealing with   or incomplete information, employing concepts from   and  . 
 Many of these algorithms are insufficient for solving large reasoning problems because they experience a "combinatorial explosion": they became exponentially slower as the problems grew larger.  Even humans rarely use the step-by-step deduction that early AI research could model. They solve most of their problems using fast, intuitive judgments.  Accurate and efficient reasoning is an unsolved problem.
  and   allow AI programs to answer questions intelligently and make deductions about real-world facts. Formal knowledge representations are used in content-based indexing and retrieval,  scene interpretation,  clinical decision support,  knowledge discovery (mining "interesting" and actionable inferences from large  ),  and other areas. 
 A   is a body of knowledge represented in a form that can be used by a program. An   is the set of objects, relations, concepts, and properties used by a particular domain of knowledge.  Knowledge bases need to represent things such as: objects, properties, categories and relations between objects;  situations, events, states and time;  causes and effects;  knowledge about knowledge (what we know about what other people know);    (things that humans assume are true until they are told differently and will remain true even when other facts are changing);  and many other aspects and domains of knowledge.
 Among the most difficult problems in knowledge representation are: the breadth of commonsense knowledge (the set of atomic facts that the average person knows is enormous);  and the sub-symbolic form of most commonsense knowledge (much of what people know is not represented as "facts" or "statements" that they could express verbally).  There is also the difficulty of  , the problem of obtaining knowledge for AI applications. 
 An "agent" is anything that perceives and takes actions in the world. A   has goals or preferences and takes actions to make them happen.  In  , the agent has a specific goal.  In  , the agent has preferences—there are some situations it would prefer to be in, and some situations it is trying to avoid. The decision making agent assigns a number to each situation (called the " ") that measures how much the agent prefers it. For each possible action, it can calculate the " ": the   of all possible outcomes of the action, weighted by the probability that the outcome will occur. It can then choose the action with the maximum expected utility. 
 In  , the agent knows exactly what the effect of any action will be.  In most real-world problems, however, the agent may not be certain about the situation they are in (it is "unknown" or "unobservable") and it may not know for certain what will happen after each possible action (it is not "deterministic"). It must choose an action by making a probabilistic guess and then reassess the situation to see if the action worked. 
 In some problems, the agent's preferences may be uncertain, especially if there are other agents or humans involved. These can be learned (e.g., with  ) or the agent can seek information to improve its preferences.    can be used to weigh the value of exploratory or experimental actions.  The space of possible future actions and situations is typically   large, so the agents must take actions and evaluate situations while being uncertain what the outcome will be.
 A   has a   that describes the probability that a particular action will change the state in a particular way, and a   that supplies the utility of each state and the cost of each action. A   associates a decision with each possible state. The policy could be calculated (e.g., by  ), be  , or it can be learned. 
  describes rational behavior of multiple interacting agents, and is used in AI programs that make decisions that involve other agents. 
  is the study of programs that can improve their performance on a given task automatically.  It has been a part of AI from the beginning. 
 There are several kinds of machine learning.   analyzes a stream of data and finds patterns and makes predictions without any other guidance.    requires a human to label the input data first, and comes in two main varieties:   (where the program must learn to predict what category the input belongs in) and   (where the program must deduce a numeric function based on numeric input). 
 In   the agent is rewarded for good responses and punished for bad ones. The agent learns to choose responses that are classified as "good".    is when the knowledge gained from one problem is applied to a new problem.    is a type of machine learning that runs inputs through biologically inspired   for all of these types of learning. 
  can assess learners by  , by   (how much data is required), or by other notions of  . 
  (NLP)  allows programs to read, write and communicate in human languages such as  . Specific problems include  ,  ,  ,  ,   and  . 
 Early work, based on  's   and  , had difficulty with   unless restricted to small domains called " " (due to the common sense knowledge problem ).   believed that it was meaning and not grammar that was the key to understanding languages, and that   and not dictionaries should be the basis of computational language structure.
 Modern deep learning techniques for NLP include   (representing words, typically as   encoding their meaning),    (a deep learning architecture using an   mechanism),  and others.  In 2019,   (or "GPT") language models began to generate coherent text,  and by 2023 these models were able to get human-level scores on the  ,   test,   test, and many other real-world applications. 
  is the ability to use input from sensors (such as cameras, microphones, wireless signals, active  , sonar, radar, and  ) to deduce aspects of the world.   is the ability to analyze visual input. 
 The field includes  ,   ,   ,  ,  and  . 
  is an interdisciplinary umbrella that comprises systems that recognize, interpret, process or simulate human  .  For example, some   are programmed to speak conversationally or even to banter humorously; it makes them appear more sensitive to the emotional dynamics of human interaction, or to otherwise facilitate  .
 However, this tends to give naïve users an unrealistic conception of the intelligence of existing computer agents.  Moderate successes related to affective computing include textual   and, more recently,  , wherein AI classifies the affects displayed by a videotaped subject. 
 A machine with   should be able to solve a wide variety of problems with breadth and versatility similar to human intelligence. 
 AI research uses a wide variety of techniques to accomplish the goals above. 
 AI can solve many problems by intelligently searching through many possible solutions.  There are two very different kinds of search used in AI:   and  .
  searches through a tree of possible states to try to find a goal state.  For example,   algorithms search through trees of goals and subgoals, attempting to find a path to a target goal, a process called  . 
  are rarely sufficient for most real-world problems: the   (the number of places to search) quickly grows to  . The result is a search that is   or never completes.  " " or "rules of thumb" can help to prioritize choices that are more likely to reach a goal. 
  is used for   programs, such as chess or Go. It searches through a   of possible moves and counter-moves, looking for a winning position. 
  uses   to find a solution to a problem. It begins with some form of guess and refines it incrementally. 
  is a type of local search that optimizes a set of numerical parameters by incrementally adjusting them to minimize a  . Variants of gradient descent are commonly used to train neural networks. 
 Another type of local search is  , which aims to iteratively improve a set of candidate solutions by "mutating" and "recombining" them,   only the fittest to survive each generation. 
 Distributed search processes can coordinate via   algorithms. Two popular swarm algorithms used in search are   (inspired by bird  ) and   (inspired by  ). 
 Formal   is used for   and  . 
Formal logic comes in two main forms:   (which operates on statements that are true or false and uses   such as "and", "or", "not" and "implies")  and   (which also operates on objects, predicates and relations and uses   such as "    is a  " and "There are    s that are  s"). 
  in logic is the process of   a new statement ( ) from other statements that are given and assumed to be true (the  ).  Proofs can be structured as proof  , in which nodes are labelled by sentences, and children nodes are connected to  parent nodes by  .
 Given a problem and a set of premises, problem-solving reduces to searching for a proof tree whose root node is labelled by a solution of the problem and whose leaf nodes are labelled by premises or  . In the case of  , problem-solving search can be performed by reasoning   from the premises or   from the problem.  In the more general case of the clausal form of  ,   is a single, axiom-free rule of inference, in which a problem is solved by proving a contradiction from premises that include the negation of the problem to be solved. 
 Inference in both Horn clause logic and first-order logic is  , and therefore  . However, backward reasoning with Horn clauses, which underpins computation in the   language  , is  . Moreover, its efficiency is competitive with computation in other   languages. 
  assigns a "degree of truth" between 0 and 1. It can therefore handle propositions that are vague and partially true. 
 , including logic programming with  , are designed to handle  . 
Other specialized versions of logic have been developed to describe many complex domains.
 Many problems in AI (including in reasoning, planning, learning, perception, and robotics) require the agent to operate with incomplete or uncertain information. AI researchers have devised a number of tools to solve these problems using methods from   theory and economics.  Precise mathematical tools have been developed that analyze how an agent can make choices and plan, using  ,  ,  and  .  These tools include models such as  ,  dynamic  ,    and  . 
  are a tool that can be used for   (using the   algorithm),    (using the  ),    (using  )  and   (using  ). 
 
Probabilistic algorithms can also be used for filtering, prediction, smoothing and finding explanations for streams of data, helping   systems to analyze processes that occur over time (e.g.,   or  ). The simplest AI applications can be divided into two types: classifiers (e.g., "if shiny then diamond"), on one hand, and controllers (e.g., "if diamond then pick up"), on the other hand.   are functions that use   to determine the closest match. They can be fine-tuned based on chosen examples using  . Each pattern (also called an " ") is labeled with a certain predefined class. All the observations combined with their class labels are known as a  . When a new observation is received, that observation is classified based on previous experience. 
 There are many kinds of classifiers in use. The   is the simplest and most widely used symbolic machine learning algorithm.    algorithm was the most widely used analogical AI until the mid-1990s, and   such as the   (SVM) displaced k-nearest neighbor in the 1990s. 
The   is reportedly the "most widely used learner"  at Google, due in part to its scalability. 
  are also used as classifiers. 
 An artificial neural network is based on a collection of nodes also known as  , which loosely model the   in a biological brain. It is trained to recognise patterns; once trained, it can recognise those patterns in fresh data. There is an input, at least one hidden layer of nodes and an output. Each node applies a function and once the   crosses its specified threshold, the data is transmitted to the next layer. A network is typically called a deep neural network if it has at least 2 hidden layers. 
 Learning algorithms for neural networks use   to choose the weights that will get the right output for each input during training. The most common training technique is the   algorithm. 
Neural networks learn to model complex relationships between inputs and outputs and   in data. In theory, a neural network can learn any function. 
 In   the signal passes in only one direction.    feed the output signal back into the input, which allows short-term memories of previous input events.   is the most successful network architecture for recurrent networks. 
 
use only a single layer of neurons, deep learning  uses multiple layers.
  strengthen the connection between neurons that are "close" to each other—this is especially important in  , where a local set of neurons must   before the network can identify an object. 
 Deep learning 
uses several layers of neurons between the network's inputs and outputs. The multiple layers can progressively extract higher-level features from the raw input. For example, in  , lower layers may identify edges, while higher layers may identify the concepts relevant to a human such as digits or letters or faces. 
 Deep learning has profoundly improved the performance of programs in many important subfields of artificial intelligence, including  ,  ,  ,   and others. The reason that deep learning performs so well in so many applications is not known as of 2023. 
The sudden success of deep learning in 2012–2015 did not occur because of some new discovery or theoretical breakthrough (deep neural networks and backpropagation had been described by many people, as far back as the 1950s) 
but because of two factors: the incredible increase in computer power (including the hundred-fold increase in speed by switching to  ) and the availability of vast amounts of training data, especially the giant   used for benchmark testing, such as  . 
  (GPT) are   that are based on the semantic relationships between words in sentences ( ). Text-based GPT models are pre-trained on a large corpus of text which can be from the internet. The pre-training consists in predicting the next   (a token being usually a word, subword, or punctuation). Throughout this pre-training, GPT models accumulate knowledge about the world, and can then generate human-like text by repeatedly predicting the next token. Typically, a subsequent training phase makes the model more truthful, useful and harmless, usually with a technique called   (RLHF). Current GPT models are still prone to generating falsehoods called " ", although this can be reduced with RLHF and quality data. They are used in  , which allow you to ask a question or request a task in simple text. 
 Current models and services include:   (formerly Bard),  ,  ,  ,   and  .    GPT models can process different types of data ( ) such as images, videos, sound and text. 
 In the late 2010s,   (GPUs) that were increasingly designed with AI-specific enhancements and used with specialized   software, had replaced previously used   (CPUs) as the dominant means for large-scale (commercial and academic)   models' training.  Historically, specialized languages, such as  ,  ,   and others, had been used.
 AI and machine learning technology is used in most of the essential applications of the 2020s, including:   (such as  ),  ,   (offered by  ,   or  ), driving  ,   ( ,  ),   (such as   or  ),   (including  ,   and  ),   ( ,  ),   ( 's   or  's   and  's  ) and   (used by  , Apple's   and  ).
 The application of AI in   and   has the potential to increase patient care and quality of life.  Through the lens of the  , medical professionals are ethically compelled to use AI, if applications can more accurately diagnose and treat patients.
 For medical research, AI is an important tool for processing and integrating  . This is particularly important for   and   development which use   imaging as a key technique in fabrication.  It has been suggested that AI can overcome discrepancies in funding allocated to different fields of research.  New AI tools can deepen the understanding of biomedically relevant pathways. For example,   (2021) demonstrated the ability to approximate, in hours rather than months, the 3D  .  In 2023, it was reported that AI-guided drug discovery helped find a class of antibiotics capable of killing two different types of drug-resistant bacteria.  In 2024, researchers used machine learning to accelerate the search for   drug treatments. Their aim was to identify compounds that block the clumping, or aggregation, of   (the protein that characterises Parkinson's disease). They were able to speed up the initial screening process ten-fold, and to reduce the cost by a thousand-fold. 
  programs have been used since the 1950s to demonstrate and test AI's most advanced techniques.    became the first computer chess-playing system to beat a reigning world chess champion,  , on 11 May 1997.  In 2011, in a     exhibition match,  's  ,  , defeated the two greatest   champions,   and  , by a significant margin.  In March 2016,   won 4 out of 5 games of   in a match with Go champion  , becoming the first  -playing system to beat a professional Go player without  . Then in 2017 it  , who was the best Go player in the world.  Other programs handle   games, such as the  -playing program  .    developed increasingly generalistic   models, such as with  , which could be trained to play chess, Go, or   games.  In 2019, DeepMind's AlphaStar achieved grandmaster level in  , a particularly challenging real-time strategy game that involves incomplete knowledge of what happens on the map.  In 2021, an AI agent competed in a PlayStation Gran Turismo competition, winning against four of the world's best Gran Turismo drivers using deep reinforcement learning. 
 Various countries are deploying AI military applications.  The main applications enhance  , communications, sensors, integration and interoperability.  Research is targeting intelligence collection and analysis, logistics, cyber operations, information operations, and semiautonomous and  .  AI technologies enable coordination of sensors and effectors, threat detection and identification, marking of enemy positions,  , coordination and deconfliction of distributed   between networked combat vehicles involving manned and unmanned teams.  AI was incorporated into military operations in Iraq and Syria. 
 In November 2023, US Vice President   disclosed a declaration signed by 31 nations to set guardrails for the military use of AI. The commitments include using legal reviews to ensure the compliance of military AI with international laws, and being cautious and transparent in the development of this technology. 
 In the early 2020s,   gained widespread prominence. In March 2023, 58% of U.S. adults had heard about   and 14% had tried it.  The increasing realism and ease-of-use of AI-based   generators such as  ,  , and   sparked a trend of   AI-generated photos. Widespread attention was gained by a fake photo of   wearing a white puffer coat, the fictional arrest of  , and a hoax of an attack on the  , as well as the usage in professional creative arts. 
 There are also thousands of successful AI applications used to solve specific problems for specific industries or institutions. In a 2017 survey, one in five companies reported they had incorporated "AI" in some offerings or processes.  A few examples are  , medical diagnosis, military logistics, applications that predict the result of judicial decisions,  , or supply chain management.
 In agriculture, AI has helped farmers identify areas that need irrigation, fertilization, pesticide treatments or increasing yield. Agronomists use AI to conduct research and development. AI has been used to predict the ripening time for crops such as tomatoes, monitor soil moisture, operate agricultural robots, conduct predictive analytics, classify livestock pig call emotions, automate greenhouses, detect diseases and pests, and save water.
 Artificial intelligence is used in astronomy to analyze increasing amounts of available data and applications, mainly for "classification, regression, clustering, forecasting, generation, discovery, and the development of new scientific insights" for example for discovering exoplanets, forecasting solar activity, and distinguishing between signals and instrumental effects in gravitational wave astronomy. It could also be used for activities in space such as space exploration, including analysis of data from space missions, real-time science decisions of spacecraft, space debris avoidance, and more autonomous operation.
 AI has potential benefits and potential risks. AI may be able to advance science and find solutions for serious problems:   of   hopes to "solve intelligence, and then use that to solve everything else".  However, as the use of AI has become widespread, several unintended consequences and risks have been identified.  In-production systems can sometimes not factor ethics and bias into their AI training processes, especially when the AI algorithms are inherently unexplainable in deep learning. 
 Machine-learning algorithms require large amounts of data. The techniques used to acquire this data have raised concerns about  ,   and  .
 Technology companies collect a wide range of data from their users, including online activity, geolocation data, video and audio. 
For example, in order to build   algorithms,   has recorded millions of private conversations and allowed   to listen to and transcribe some of them.  Opinions about this widespread   range from those who see it as a   to those for whom it is clearly   and a violation of the  . 
 AI developers argue that this is the only way to deliver valuable applications. and have developed several techniques that attempt to preserve privacy while still obtaining the data, such as  ,   and  .  Since 2016, some privacy experts, such as  , have begun to view privacy in terms of  .   wrote that experts have pivoted "from the question of 'what they know' to the question of 'what they're doing with it'." 
 Generative AI is often trained on unlicensed copyrighted works, including in domains such as images or computer code; the output is then used under the rationale of " ". Website owners who do not wish to have their copyrighted content AI-indexed or 'scraped' can add code to their site if they do not want their website to be indexed by a search engine, which is currently available through certain services such as  . Experts disagree about how well and under what circumstances this rationale will hold up in courts of law; relevant factors may include "the purpose and character of the use of the copyrighted work" and "the effect upon the potential market for the copyrighted work".  In 2023, leading authors (including   and  ) sued AI companies for using their work to train generative AI. 
 ,   and others use   to guide users to more content. These AI programs were given the goal of   user engagement (that is, the only goal was to keep people watching). The AI learned that users tended to choose  ,  , and extreme   content, and, to keep them watching, the AI recommended more of it. Users also tended to watch more content on the same subject, so the AI led people into   where they received multiple versions of the same misinformation.  This convinced many users that the misinformation was true, and ultimately undermined trust in institutions, the media and the government.  The AI program had correctly learned to maximize its goal, but the result was harmful to society. After the U.S. election in 2016, major technology companies took steps to mitigate the problem.
 In 2022,   began to create images, audio, video and text that are indistinguishable from real photographs, recordings, films or human writing. It is possible for bad actors to use this technology to create massive amounts of misinformation or propaganda.  AI pioneer   expressed concern about AI enabling "authoritarian leaders to manipulate their electorates" on a large scale, among other risks. 
 Machine learning applications will be biased if they learn from biased data.  The developers may not be aware that the bias exists. 
Bias can be introduced by the way   is selected and by the way a model is deployed.  If a biased algorithm is used to make decisions that can seriously   people (as it can in  ,  ,  ,   or  ) then the algorithm may cause  . 
  in machine learning is the study of how to prevent the harm caused by algorithmic bias. It has become serious area of academic study within AI. Researchers have discovered it is not always possible to define "fairness" in a way that satisfies all stakeholders. 
 On June 28, 2015,  's new image labeling feature mistakenly identified Jacky Alcine and a friend as "gorillas" because they were black. The system was trained on a dataset that contained very few images of black people,  a problem called "sample size disparity".  Google "fixed" this problem by preventing the system from labelling   as a "gorilla". Eight years later, in 2023, Google Photos still could not identify a gorilla, and neither could similar products from Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Amazon. 
  is a commercial program widely used by   to assess the likelihood of a   becoming a  .
In 2016,   at   discovered that COMPAS exhibited racial bias, despite the fact that the program was not told the races of the defendants. Although the error rate for both whites and blacks was calibrated equal at exactly 61%, the errors for each race were different—the system consistently overestimated the chance that a black person would re-offend and would underestimate the chance that a white person would not re-offend.  In 2017, several researchers  showed that it was mathematically impossible for COMPAS to accommodate all possible measures of fairness when the base rates of re-offense were different for whites and blacks in the data. 
 A program can make biased decisions even if the data does not explicitly mention a problematic feature (such as "race" or "gender"). The feature will correlate with other features (like "address", "shopping history" or "first name"), and the program will make the same decisions based on these features as it would on "race" or "gender". 
Moritz Hardt said "the most robust fact in this research area is that fairness through blindness doesn't work." 
 Criticism of COMPAS highlighted that machine learning models are designed to make "predictions" that are only valid if we assume that the future will resemble the past. If they are trained on data that includes the results of racist decisions in the past, machine learning models must predict that racist decisions will be made in the future. If an application then uses these predictions as  , some of these "recommendations" will likely be racist.  Thus, machine learning is not well suited to help make decisions in areas where there is hope that the future will be   than the past. It is necessarily descriptive and not proscriptive. 
 Bias and unfairness may go undetected because the developers are overwhelmingly white and male: among AI engineers, about 4% are black and 20% are women. 
 At its 2022   (ACM FAccT 2022), the  , in Seoul, South Korea, presented and published findings that recommend that until AI and robotics systems are demonstrated to be free of bias mistakes, they are unsafe, and the use of self-learning neural networks trained on vast, unregulated sources of flawed internet data should be curtailed. 
 Many AI systems are so complex that their designers cannot explain how they reach their decisions.  Particularly with  , in which there are a large amount of non-  relationships between inputs and outputs. But some popular explainability techniques exist. 
 It is impossible to be certain that a program is operating correctly if no one knows how exactly it works. There have been many cases where a machine learning program passed rigorous tests, but nevertheless learned something different than what the programmers intended. For example, a system that could identify skin diseases better than medical professionals was found to actually have a strong tendency to classify images with a   as "cancerous", because pictures of malignancies typically include a ruler to show the scale.  Another machine learning system designed to help effectively allocate medical resources was found to classify patients with asthma as being at "low risk" of dying from pneumonia. Having asthma is actually a severe risk factor, but since the patients having asthma would usually get much more medical care, they were relatively unlikely to die according to the training data. The correlation between asthma and low risk of dying from pneumonia was real, but misleading. 
 People who have been harmed by an algorithm's decision have a right to an explanation.  Doctors, for example, are expected to clearly and completely explain to their colleagues the reasoning behind any decision they make. Early drafts of the European Union's   in 2016 included an explicit statement that this right exists.  Industry experts noted that this is an unsolved problem with no solution in sight. Regulators argued that nevertheless the harm is real: if the problem has no solution, the tools should not be used. 
  established the   ("Explainable Artificial Intelligence") program in 2014 to try and solve these problems.  
 There are several possible solutions to the transparency problem. SHAP tried to solve the transparency problems by visualising the contribution of each feature to the output.  LIME can locally approximate a model with a simpler, interpretable model.    provides a large number of outputs in addition to the target classification. These other outputs can help developers deduce what the network has learned.   ,   and other   methods can allow developers to see what different layers of a deep network have learned and produce output that can suggest what the network is learning. 
 Artificial intelligence provides a number of tools that are useful to  , such as  ,  ,   or  .
 A lethal autonomous weapon is a machine that locates, selects and engages human targets without human supervision.  Widely available AI tools can be used by bad actors to develop inexpensive autonomous weapons and, if produced at scale, they are potentially  .  Even when used in conventional warfare, it is unlikely that they will be unable to reliably choose targets and could potentially  .  In 2014, 30 nations (including China) supported a ban on autonomous weapons under the  '  , however the   and others disagreed.  By 2015, over fifty countries were reported to be researching battlefield robots. 
 AI tools make it easier for   to efficiently control their citizens in several ways.   and   allow widespread  .  , operating this data, can   potential enemies of the state and prevent them from hiding.   can precisely target   and   for maximum effect.   and   aid in producing misinformation. Advanced AI can make authoritarian   more competitive than liberal and decentralized systems such as  . It lowers the cost and difficulty of   and  .  All these technologies have been available since 2020 or earlier—AI   are already being used for   in China. 
 There many other ways that AI is expected to help bad actors, some of which can not be foreseen. For example, machine-learning AI is able to design tens of thousands of toxic molecules in a matter of hours. 
 Training AI systems requires an enormous amount of computing power. Usually only   companies have the financial resources to make such investments. Smaller startups such as   and   end up buying access to   from   and   respectively. 
 Economists have frequently highlighted the risks of redundancies from AI, and speculated about unemployment if there is no adequate social policy for full employment. 
 In the past, technology has tended to increase rather than reduce total employment, but economists acknowledge that "we're in uncharted territory" with AI.  A survey of economists showed disagreement about whether the increasing use of robots and AI will cause a substantial increase in long-term  , but they generally agree that it could be a net benefit if   gains are  .  Risk estimates vary; for example, in the 2010s, Michael Osborne and   estimated 47% of U.S. jobs are at "high risk" of potential automation, while an OECD report classified only 9% of U.S. jobs as "high risk".  The methodology of speculating about future employment levels has been criticised as lacking evidential foundation, and for implying that technology, rather than social policy, creates unemployment, as opposed to redundancies.  In April 2023, it was reported that 70% of the jobs for Chinese video game illustrators had been eliminated by generative artificial intelligence. 
 Unlike previous waves of automation, many middle-class jobs may be eliminated by artificial intelligence;   stated in 2015 that "the worry that AI could do to white-collar jobs what steam power did to blue-collar ones during the Industrial Revolution" is "worth taking seriously".  Jobs at extreme risk range from   to fast food cooks, while job demand is likely to increase for care-related professions ranging from personal healthcare to the clergy. 
 From the early days of the development of artificial intelligence, there have been arguments, for example, those put forward by  , about whether tasks that can be done by computers actually should be done by them, given the difference between computers and humans, and between quantitative calculation and qualitative, value-based judgement. 
 It has been argued AI will become so powerful that humanity may irreversibly lose control of it. This could, as physicist   stated, " ".  This scenario has been common in science fiction, when a computer or robot suddenly develops a human-like "self-awareness" (or "sentience" or "consciousness") and becomes a malevolent character.  These sci-fi scenarios are misleading in several ways.
 First, AI does not require human-like " " to be an existential risk. Modern AI programs are given specific goals and use learning and intelligence to achieve them. Philosopher   argued that if one gives   goal to a sufficiently powerful AI, it may choose to destroy humanity to achieve it (he used the example of a  ).    gives the example of household robot that tries to find a way to kill its owner to prevent it from being unplugged, reasoning that "you can't fetch the coffee if you're dead."  In order to be safe for humanity, a   would have to be genuinely   with humanity's morality and values so that it is "fundamentally on our side". 
 Second,   argues that AI does not require a robot body or physical control to pose an existential risk. The essential parts of civilization are not physical. Things like  ,  ,  ,   and the   are made of  ; they exist because there are stories that billions of people believe. The current prevalence of   suggests that an AI could use language to convince people to believe anything, even to take actions that are destructive. 
 The opinions amongst experts and industry insiders are mixed, with sizable fractions both concerned and unconcerned by risk from eventual superintelligent AI.  Personalities such as  ,  , and   have expressed concern about existential risk from AI. 
AI pioneers including  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and   have expressed concerns about the risks of AI. In 2023, many leading AI experts issued the joint statement that "Mitigating the risk of extinction from AI should be a global priority alongside other societal-scale risks such as pandemics and nuclear war". 
 Other researchers, however, spoke in favor of a less dystopian view. AI pioneer   did not sign the joint statement, emphasising that in 95% of all cases, AI research is about making "human lives longer and healthier and easier."  While the tools that are now being used to improve lives can also be used by bad actors, "they can also be used against the bad actors."    also argued that "it's a mistake to fall for the doomsday hype on AI—and that regulators who do will only benefit vested interests."    "scoffs at his peers' dystopian scenarios of supercharged misinformation and even, eventually, human extinction."  In the early 2010s, experts argued that the risks are too distant in the future to warrant research or that humans will be valuable from the perspective of a superintelligent machine.  However, after 2016, the study of current and future risks and possible solutions became a serious area of research. 
 Friendly AI are machines that have been designed from the beginning to minimize risks and to make choices that benefit humans.  , who coined the term, argues that developing friendly AI should be a higher research priority: it may require a large investment and it must be completed before AI becomes an existential risk. 
 Machines with intelligence have the potential to use their intelligence to make ethical decisions. The field of machine ethics provides machines with ethical principles and procedures for resolving ethical dilemmas. 
The field of machine ethics is also called computational morality, 
and was founded at an   symposium in 2005. 
 Other approaches include  's "artificial moral agents"  and  's   for developing provably beneficial machines. 
 Active organizations in the AI open-source community include  ,   ,    and  .  Various AI models, such as  ,   or  , have been made open-weight,  meaning that their architecture and trained parameters (the "weights") are publicly available. Open-weight models can be freely  , which allows companies to specialize them with their own data and for their own use-case.  Open-weight models are useful for research and innovation, but can also be misused. Since they can be fine-tuned, any built-in security measure, such as objecting to harmful requests, can be trained away until it becomes ineffective. Some researchers warn that future AI models may develop dangerous capabilities (such as the potential to drastically facilitate  ), and that once released on the Internet, they can't be deleted everywhere if needed. They recommend pre-release audits and cost-benefit analyses. 
 Artificial Intelligence projects can have their ethical permissibility tested while designing, developing, and implementing an AI system. An AI framework such as the Care and Act Framework containing the SUM values—developed by the   tests projects in four main areas: 
 Other developments in ethical frameworks include those decided upon during the  , the Montreal Declaration for Responsible AI, and the IEEE's Ethics of Autonomous Systems initiative, among others;  however, these principles do not go without their criticisms, especially regards to the people chosen contributes to these frameworks. 
 Promotion of the wellbeing of the people and communities that these technologies affect requires consideration of the social and ethical implications at all stages of AI system design, development and implementation, and collaboration between job roles such as data scientists, product managers, data engineers, domain experts, and delivery managers. 
 The regulation of artificial intelligence is the development of public sector policies and laws for promoting and regulating artificial intelligence (AI); it is therefore related to the broader regulation of algorithms.  The regulatory and policy landscape for AI is an emerging issue in jurisdictions globally.  According to AI Index at  , the annual number of AI-related laws passed in the 127 survey countries jumped from one passed in 2016 to 37 passed in 2022 alone.  Between 2016 and 2020, more than 30 countries adopted dedicated strategies for AI.  Most EU member states had released national AI strategies, as had Canada, China, India, Japan, Mauritius, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, U.S., and Vietnam. Others were in the process of elaborating their own AI strategy, including Bangladesh, Malaysia and Tunisia.  The   was launched in June 2020, stating a need for AI to be developed in accordance with human rights and democratic values, to ensure public confidence and trust in the technology.   ,  , and   published a joint statement in November 2021 calling for a government commission to regulate AI.  In 2023, OpenAI leaders published recommendations for the governance of superintelligence, which they believe may happen in less than 10 years.  In 2023, the United Nations also launched an advisory body to provide recommendations on AI governance; the body comprises technology company executives, governments officials and academics. 
 In a 2022   survey, attitudes towards AI varied greatly by country; 78% of Chinese citizens, but only 35% of Americans, agreed that "products and services using AI have more benefits than drawbacks".  A 2023  /Ipsos poll found that 61% of Americans agree, and 22% disagree, that AI poses risks to humanity.  In a 2023   poll, 35% of Americans thought it "very important", and an additional 41% thought it "somewhat important", for the federal government to regulate AI, versus 13% responding "not very important" and 8% responding "not at all important". 
 In November 2023, the first global   was held in   in the UK to discuss the near and far term risks of AI and the possibility of mandatory and voluntary regulatory frameworks.  28 countries including the United States, China, and the European Union issued a declaration at the start of the summit, calling for international co-operation to manage the challenges and risks of artificial intelligence. 
 The study of mechanical or "formal" reasoning began with philosophers and mathematicians in antiquity. The study of logic led directly to  's  , which suggested that a machine, by shuffling symbols as simple as "0" and "1", could simulate any conceivable form of mathematical reasoning.  This, along with concurrent discoveries in  ,   and  , led researchers to consider the possibility of building an "electronic brain".  
They developed several areas of research that would become part of AI, 
such as   and   design for "artificial neurons" in 1943,  and Turing's influential 1950 paper ' ', which introduced the   and showed that "machine intelligence" was plausible. 
 The field of AI research was founded at   at   in 1956.  The attendees became the leaders of AI research in the 1960s.  They and their students produced programs that the press described as "astonishing":  computers were learning   strategies, solving word problems in algebra, proving   and speaking English.  Artificial intelligence laboratories were set up at a number of British and U.S. Universities in the latter 1950s and early 1960s. 
 Researchers in the 1960s and the 1970s were convinced that their methods would eventually succeed in creating a machine with   and considered this the goal of their field.    predicted, "machines will be capable, within twenty years, of doing any work a man can do".    agreed, writing, "within a generation ... the problem of creating 'artificial intelligence' will substantially be solved".  They had, however, underestimated the difficulty of the problem.  In 1974, both the U.S. and British governments cut off exploratory research in response to the   of   and ongoing pressure from the U.S. Congress to  .   's and  's book   was understood as proving that   would never be useful for solving real-world tasks, thus discrediting the approach altogether.  The " ", a period when obtaining funding for AI projects was difficult, followed. 
 In the early 1980s, AI research was revived by the commercial success of  ,  a form of AI program that simulated the knowledge and analytical skills of human experts. By 1985, the market for AI had reached over a billion dollars. At the same time, Japan's   project inspired the U.S. and British governments to restore funding for  .  However, beginning with the collapse of the   market in 1987, AI once again fell into disrepute, and a second, longer-lasting winter began. 
 Up to this point, most of AI's funding had gone to projects which used high level   to represent   like plans, goals, beliefs and known facts. In the 1980s, some researchers began to doubt that this approach would be able to imitate all the processes of human cognition, especially  ,  ,   and  ,  and began to look into "sub-symbolic" approaches.    rejected "representation" in general and focussed directly on engineering machines that move and survive.   ,   and others developed methods that handled incomplete and uncertain information by making reasonable guesses rather than precise logic.  But the most important development was the revival of " ", including neural network research, by   and others.  In 1990,   successfully showed that   can recognize handwritten digits, the first of many successful applications of neural networks. 
 AI gradually restored its reputation in the late 1990s and early 21st century by exploiting formal mathematical methods and by finding specific solutions to specific problems. This " " and "formal" focus allowed researchers to produce verifiable results and collaborate with other fields (such as  ,   and  ).  By 2000, solutions developed by AI researchers were being widely used, although in the 1990s they were rarely described as "artificial intelligence". 
However, several academic researchers became concerned that AI was no longer pursuing its original goal of creating versatile, fully intelligent machines. Beginning around 2002, they founded the subfield of   (or "AGI"), which had several well-funded institutions by the 2010s. 
  began to dominate industry benchmarks in 2012 and was adopted throughout the field. 
For many specific tasks, other methods were abandoned. 
Deep learning's success was based on both hardware improvements ( ,   ,  ) and access to   (including curated datasets,  such as  ). Deep learning's success led to an enormous increase in interest and funding in AI.  The amount of machine learning research (measured by total publications) increased by 50% in the years 2015–2019. 
 In 2016, issues of   and the misuse of technology were catapulted into center stage at machine learning conferences, publications vastly increased, funding became available, and many researchers re-focussed their careers on these issues. The   became a serious field of academic study. 
 In the late teens and early 2020s,   companies began to deliver programs that created enormous interest. In 2015,  , developed by  , beat the world champion  . The program was taught only the rules of the game and developed strategy by itself.   is a   that was released in 2020 by   and is capable of generating high-quality human-like text.  These programs, and others, inspired an aggressive  , where large companies began investing billions in AI research. According to 'AI Impacts', about $50 billion annually was invested in "AI" around 2022 in the U.S. alone and about 20% of the new U.S. Computer Science PhD graduates have specialized in "AI". 
About 800,000 "AI"-related U.S. job openings existed in 2022. 
  wrote in 1950 "I propose to consider the question 'can machines think'?"  He advised changing the question from whether a machine "thinks", to "whether or not it is possible for machinery to show intelligent behaviour".  He devised the Turing test, which measures the ability of a machine to simulate human conversation.  Since we can only observe the behavior of the machine, it does not matter if it is "actually" thinking or literally has a "mind". Turing notes that   but "it is usual to have a polite convention that everyone thinks" 
  and   agree with Turing that intelligence must be defined in terms of external behavior, not internal structure.  However, they are critical that the test requires the machine to imitate humans. "  texts," they wrote, "do not define the goal of their field as making 'machines that fly so exactly like   that they can fool other pigeons. "  AI founder   agreed, writing that "Artificial intelligence is not, by definition, simulation of human intelligence". 
 McCarthy defines intelligence as "the computational part of the ability to achieve goals in the world."  Another AI founder,   similarly describes it as "the ability to solve hard problems".  The leading AI textbook defines it as the study of agents that perceive their environment and take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.  These definitions view intelligence in terms of well-defined problems with well-defined solutions, where both the difficulty of the problem and the performance of the program are direct measures of the "intelligence" of the machine—and no other philosophical discussion is required, or may not even be possible.
 Another definition has been adopted by Google,  a major practitioner in the field of AI. This definition stipulates the ability of systems to synthesize information as the manifestation of intelligence, similar to the way it is defined in biological intelligence.
 No established unifying theory or   has guided AI research for most of its history.  The unprecedented success of statistical machine learning in the 2010s eclipsed all other approaches (so much so that some sources, especially in the business world, use the term "artificial intelligence" to mean "machine learning with neural networks"). This approach is mostly  ,   and  . Critics argue that these questions may have to be revisited by future generations of AI researchers.
  (or " ")  simulated the high-level conscious reasoning that people use when they solve puzzles, express legal reasoning and do mathematics. They were highly successful at "intelligent" tasks such as algebra or IQ tests. In the 1960s, Newell and Simon proposed the  : "A physical symbol system has the necessary and sufficient means of general intelligent action." 
 However, the symbolic approach failed on many tasks that humans solve easily, such as learning, recognizing an object or commonsense reasoning.   is the discovery that high-level "intelligent" tasks were easy for AI, but low level "instinctive" tasks were extremely difficult.  Philosopher   had   since the 1960s that human expertise depends on unconscious instinct rather than conscious symbol manipulation, and on having a "feel" for the situation, rather than explicit symbolic knowledge.  Although his arguments had been ridiculed and ignored when they were first presented, eventually, AI research came to agree with him. 
 The issue is not resolved:   reasoning can make many of the same inscrutable mistakes that human intuition does, such as  . Critics such as   argue continuing research into symbolic AI will still be necessary to attain general intelligence,  in part because sub-symbolic AI is a move away from  : it can be difficult or impossible to understand why a modern statistical AI program made a particular decision. The emerging field of   attempts to bridge the two approaches.
 "Neats" hope that intelligent behavior is described using simple, elegant principles (such as  ,  , or  ). "Scruffies" expect that it necessarily requires solving a large number of unrelated problems. Neats defend their programs with theoretical rigor, scruffies rely mainly on incremental testing to see if they work. This issue was actively discussed in the 1970s and 1980s,  but eventually was seen as irrelevant. Modern AI has elements of both.
 Finding a provably correct or optimal solution is   for many important problems.  Soft computing is a set of techniques, including  ,   and neural networks, that are tolerant of imprecision, uncertainty, partial truth and approximation. Soft computing was introduced in the late 1980s and most successful AI programs in the 21st century are examples of soft computing with neural networks.
 AI researchers are divided as to whether to pursue the goals of artificial general intelligence and   directly or to solve as many specific problems as possible (narrow AI) in hopes these solutions will lead indirectly to the field's long-term goals.  General intelligence is difficult to define and difficult to measure, and modern AI has had more verifiable successes by focusing on specific problems with specific solutions. The experimental sub-field of artificial general intelligence studies this area exclusively.
 The   does not know whether a machine can have a  ,   and  , in the same sense that human beings do. This issue considers the internal experiences of the machine, rather than its external behavior. Mainstream AI research considers this issue irrelevant because it does not affect the goals of the field: to build machines that can solve problems using intelligence.   and   add that "[t]he additional project of making a machine conscious in exactly the way humans are is not one that we are equipped to take on."  However, the question has become central to the philosophy of mind. It is also typically the central question at issue in  .
  identified two problems in understanding the mind, which he named the "hard" and "easy" problems of consciousness.  The easy problem is understanding how the brain processes signals, makes plans and controls behavior. The hard problem is explaining how this   or why it should feel like anything at all, assuming we are right in thinking that it truly does feel like something (Dennett's consciousness illusionism says this is an illusion). Human   is easy to explain, however, human   is difficult to explain. For example, it is easy to imagine a color-blind person who has learned to identify which objects in their field of view are red, but it is not clear what would be required for the person to  . 
 Computationalism is the position in the   that the human mind is an information processing system and that thinking is a form of computing. Computationalism argues that the relationship between mind and body is similar or identical to the relationship between software and hardware and thus may be a solution to the  . This philosophical position was inspired by the work of AI researchers and cognitive scientists in the 1960s and was originally proposed by philosophers   and  . 
 Philosopher   characterized this position as " ": "The appropriately programmed computer with the right inputs and outputs would thereby have a mind in exactly the same sense human beings have minds."  Searle counters this assertion with his Chinese room argument, which attempts to show that, even if a machine perfectly simulates human behavior, there is still no reason to suppose it also has a mind. 
 It is difficult or impossible to reliably evaluate whether an advanced   (has the ability to feel), and if so, to what degree.  But if there is a significant chance that a given machine can feel and suffer, then it may be entitled to certain rights or welfare protection measures, similarly to animals.    (a set of capacities related to high intelligence, such as discernment or  ) may provide another moral basis for AI rights.    are also sometimes proposed as a practical way to integrate autonomous agents into society. 
 In 2017, the European Union considered granting "electronic personhood" to some of the most capable AI systems. Similarly to the legal status of companies, it would have conferred rights but also responsibilities.  Critics argued in 2018 that granting rights to AI systems would downplay the importance of  , and that legislation should focus on user needs rather than speculative futuristic scenarios. They also noted that robots lacked the autonomy to take part to society on their own. 
 Progress in AI increased interest in the topic. Proponents of AI welfare and rights often argue that AI sentience, if it emerges, would be particularly easy to deny. They warn that this may be a   analogous to   or  , which could lead to   if sentient AI is created and carelessly exploited. 
 A   is a hypothetical agent that would possess intelligence far surpassing that of the brightest and most gifted human mind. 
 If research into   produced sufficiently intelligent software, it might be able to  . The improved software would be even better at improving itself, leading to what   called an " " and   called a " ". 
 However, technologies cannot improve exponentially indefinitely, and typically follow an  , slowing when they reach the physical limits of what the technology can do. 
 Robot designer  , cyberneticist  , and inventor   have predicted that humans and machines will merge in the future into   that are more capable and powerful than either. This idea, called transhumanism, has roots in   and  . 
  argues that "artificial intelligence is the next stage in evolution", an idea first proposed by  's " " as far back as 1863, and expanded upon by   in his book of the same name in 1998. 
 Thought-capable artificial beings have appeared as storytelling devices since antiquity,  and have been a persistent theme in  . 
 A common   in these works began with  's  , where a human creation becomes a threat to its masters. This includes such works as   and     (both 1968), with  , the murderous computer in charge of the   spaceship, as well as   (1984) and   (1999). In contrast, the rare loyal robots such as Gort from   (1951) and Bishop from   (1986) are less prominent in popular culture. 
  introduced the   in many books and stories, most notably the "Multivac" series about a super-intelligent computer of the same name. Asimov's laws are often brought up during lay discussions of machine ethics;  while almost all artificial intelligence researchers are familiar with Asimov's laws through popular culture, they generally consider the laws useless for many reasons, one of which is their ambiguity. 
 Several works use AI to force us to confront the fundamental question of what makes us human, showing us artificial beings that have  , and thus to suffer. This appears in  's  , the films   and  , as well as the novel  , by  . Dick considers the idea that our understanding of human subjectivity is altered by technology created with artificial intelligence. 
 The two most widely used textbooks in 2023. (See the  ).
 These were the four of the most widely used AI textbooks in 2008:
 Later editions.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_intelligence

Content: 
  ( ), in its broadest sense, is   exhibited by  , particularly  . It is a   in   that develops and studies methods and software which enable machines to   and uses   and intelligence to take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.  Such machines may be called AIs.
  is widely used  ,  , and science. Some high-profile applications include advanced   (e.g.,  );   (used by  ,  , and  ); interacting   (e.g.,  ,  , and  );   (e.g.,  );   and   tools (e.g.,   and  ); and   play and analysis in   (e.g.,   and  ).  However, many AI applications are not perceived as AI: "A lot of cutting edge AI has filtered into general applications, often without being called AI because once something becomes useful enough and common enough it's  ." 
  was the first person to conduct substantial research in the field that he called machine intelligence.  Artificial intelligence was founded as an academic discipline in 1956.  The field went through multiple cycles of optimism,  followed by periods of disappointment and loss of funding, known as  .  Funding and interest vastly increased after 2012 when   surpassed all previous AI techniques,  and after 2017 with the  .  This led to the   of the early 2020s, with companies, universities, and laboratories overwhelmingly based in the United States pioneering significant  . 
 The growing use of artificial intelligence in the 21st century is influencing   towards increased automation,  , and the   into various economic sectors and areas of life,  ,  , government, industry, and  . This raises questions about  ,  , and  , prompting discussions about   to ensure the  . 
 The various sub-fields of AI research are centered around particular goals and the use of particular tools. The traditional goals of AI research include  ,  ,  ,  ,  , perception, and support for  .   —the ability to complete any task performable by a human on an at least equal level—is among the field's long-term goals. 
 To reach these goals, AI researchers have adapted and integrated a wide range of techniques, including   and  ,  ,  , and methods based on  ,  , and  .  AI also draws upon  ,  ,  ,  , and other fields. 
 The general problem of simulating (or creating) intelligence has been broken into sub-problems. These consist of particular traits or capabilities that researchers expect an intelligent system to display. The traits described below have received the most attention and cover the scope of AI research. 
 Early researchers developed algorithms that imitated step-by-step reasoning that humans use when they solve puzzles or make logical  .  By the late 1980s and 1990s, methods were developed for dealing with   or incomplete information, employing concepts from   and  . 
 Many of these algorithms are insufficient for solving large reasoning problems because they experience a "combinatorial explosion": they became exponentially slower as the problems grew larger.  Even humans rarely use the step-by-step deduction that early AI research could model. They solve most of their problems using fast, intuitive judgments.  Accurate and efficient reasoning is an unsolved problem.
  and   allow AI programs to answer questions intelligently and make deductions about real-world facts. Formal knowledge representations are used in content-based indexing and retrieval,  scene interpretation,  clinical decision support,  knowledge discovery (mining "interesting" and actionable inferences from large  ),  and other areas. 
 A   is a body of knowledge represented in a form that can be used by a program. An   is the set of objects, relations, concepts, and properties used by a particular domain of knowledge.  Knowledge bases need to represent things such as: objects, properties, categories and relations between objects;  situations, events, states and time;  causes and effects;  knowledge about knowledge (what we know about what other people know);    (things that humans assume are true until they are told differently and will remain true even when other facts are changing);  and many other aspects and domains of knowledge.
 Among the most difficult problems in knowledge representation are: the breadth of commonsense knowledge (the set of atomic facts that the average person knows is enormous);  and the sub-symbolic form of most commonsense knowledge (much of what people know is not represented as "facts" or "statements" that they could express verbally).  There is also the difficulty of  , the problem of obtaining knowledge for AI applications. 
 An "agent" is anything that perceives and takes actions in the world. A   has goals or preferences and takes actions to make them happen.  In  , the agent has a specific goal.  In  , the agent has preferences—there are some situations it would prefer to be in, and some situations it is trying to avoid. The decision making agent assigns a number to each situation (called the " ") that measures how much the agent prefers it. For each possible action, it can calculate the " ": the   of all possible outcomes of the action, weighted by the probability that the outcome will occur. It can then choose the action with the maximum expected utility. 
 In  , the agent knows exactly what the effect of any action will be.  In most real-world problems, however, the agent may not be certain about the situation they are in (it is "unknown" or "unobservable") and it may not know for certain what will happen after each possible action (it is not "deterministic"). It must choose an action by making a probabilistic guess and then reassess the situation to see if the action worked. 
 In some problems, the agent's preferences may be uncertain, especially if there are other agents or humans involved. These can be learned (e.g., with  ) or the agent can seek information to improve its preferences.    can be used to weigh the value of exploratory or experimental actions.  The space of possible future actions and situations is typically   large, so the agents must take actions and evaluate situations while being uncertain what the outcome will be.
 A   has a   that describes the probability that a particular action will change the state in a particular way, and a   that supplies the utility of each state and the cost of each action. A   associates a decision with each possible state. The policy could be calculated (e.g., by  ), be  , or it can be learned. 
  describes rational behavior of multiple interacting agents, and is used in AI programs that make decisions that involve other agents. 
  is the study of programs that can improve their performance on a given task automatically.  It has been a part of AI from the beginning. 
 There are several kinds of machine learning.   analyzes a stream of data and finds patterns and makes predictions without any other guidance.    requires a human to label the input data first, and comes in two main varieties:   (where the program must learn to predict what category the input belongs in) and   (where the program must deduce a numeric function based on numeric input). 
 In   the agent is rewarded for good responses and punished for bad ones. The agent learns to choose responses that are classified as "good".    is when the knowledge gained from one problem is applied to a new problem.    is a type of machine learning that runs inputs through biologically inspired   for all of these types of learning. 
  can assess learners by  , by   (how much data is required), or by other notions of  . 
  (NLP)  allows programs to read, write and communicate in human languages such as  . Specific problems include  ,  ,  ,  ,   and  . 
 Early work, based on  's   and  , had difficulty with   unless restricted to small domains called " " (due to the common sense knowledge problem ).   believed that it was meaning and not grammar that was the key to understanding languages, and that   and not dictionaries should be the basis of computational language structure.
 Modern deep learning techniques for NLP include   (representing words, typically as   encoding their meaning),    (a deep learning architecture using an   mechanism),  and others.  In 2019,   (or "GPT") language models began to generate coherent text,  and by 2023 these models were able to get human-level scores on the  ,   test,   test, and many other real-world applications. 
  is the ability to use input from sensors (such as cameras, microphones, wireless signals, active  , sonar, radar, and  ) to deduce aspects of the world.   is the ability to analyze visual input. 
 The field includes  ,   ,   ,  ,  and  . 
  is an interdisciplinary umbrella that comprises systems that recognize, interpret, process or simulate human  .  For example, some   are programmed to speak conversationally or even to banter humorously; it makes them appear more sensitive to the emotional dynamics of human interaction, or to otherwise facilitate  .
 However, this tends to give naïve users an unrealistic conception of the intelligence of existing computer agents.  Moderate successes related to affective computing include textual   and, more recently,  , wherein AI classifies the affects displayed by a videotaped subject. 
 A machine with   should be able to solve a wide variety of problems with breadth and versatility similar to human intelligence. 
 AI research uses a wide variety of techniques to accomplish the goals above. 
 AI can solve many problems by intelligently searching through many possible solutions.  There are two very different kinds of search used in AI:   and  .
  searches through a tree of possible states to try to find a goal state.  For example,   algorithms search through trees of goals and subgoals, attempting to find a path to a target goal, a process called  . 
  are rarely sufficient for most real-world problems: the   (the number of places to search) quickly grows to  . The result is a search that is   or never completes.  " " or "rules of thumb" can help to prioritize choices that are more likely to reach a goal. 
  is used for   programs, such as chess or Go. It searches through a   of possible moves and counter-moves, looking for a winning position. 
  uses   to find a solution to a problem. It begins with some form of guess and refines it incrementally. 
  is a type of local search that optimizes a set of numerical parameters by incrementally adjusting them to minimize a  . Variants of gradient descent are commonly used to train neural networks. 
 Another type of local search is  , which aims to iteratively improve a set of candidate solutions by "mutating" and "recombining" them,   only the fittest to survive each generation. 
 Distributed search processes can coordinate via   algorithms. Two popular swarm algorithms used in search are   (inspired by bird  ) and   (inspired by  ). 
 Formal   is used for   and  . 
Formal logic comes in two main forms:   (which operates on statements that are true or false and uses   such as "and", "or", "not" and "implies")  and   (which also operates on objects, predicates and relations and uses   such as "    is a  " and "There are    s that are  s"). 
  in logic is the process of   a new statement ( ) from other statements that are given and assumed to be true (the  ).  Proofs can be structured as proof  , in which nodes are labelled by sentences, and children nodes are connected to  parent nodes by  .
 Given a problem and a set of premises, problem-solving reduces to searching for a proof tree whose root node is labelled by a solution of the problem and whose leaf nodes are labelled by premises or  . In the case of  , problem-solving search can be performed by reasoning   from the premises or   from the problem.  In the more general case of the clausal form of  ,   is a single, axiom-free rule of inference, in which a problem is solved by proving a contradiction from premises that include the negation of the problem to be solved. 
 Inference in both Horn clause logic and first-order logic is  , and therefore  . However, backward reasoning with Horn clauses, which underpins computation in the   language  , is  . Moreover, its efficiency is competitive with computation in other   languages. 
  assigns a "degree of truth" between 0 and 1. It can therefore handle propositions that are vague and partially true. 
 , including logic programming with  , are designed to handle  . 
Other specialized versions of logic have been developed to describe many complex domains.
 Many problems in AI (including in reasoning, planning, learning, perception, and robotics) require the agent to operate with incomplete or uncertain information. AI researchers have devised a number of tools to solve these problems using methods from   theory and economics.  Precise mathematical tools have been developed that analyze how an agent can make choices and plan, using  ,  ,  and  .  These tools include models such as  ,  dynamic  ,    and  . 
  are a tool that can be used for   (using the   algorithm),    (using the  ),    (using  )  and   (using  ). 
 
Probabilistic algorithms can also be used for filtering, prediction, smoothing and finding explanations for streams of data, helping   systems to analyze processes that occur over time (e.g.,   or  ). The simplest AI applications can be divided into two types: classifiers (e.g., "if shiny then diamond"), on one hand, and controllers (e.g., "if diamond then pick up"), on the other hand.   are functions that use   to determine the closest match. They can be fine-tuned based on chosen examples using  . Each pattern (also called an " ") is labeled with a certain predefined class. All the observations combined with their class labels are known as a  . When a new observation is received, that observation is classified based on previous experience. 
 There are many kinds of classifiers in use. The   is the simplest and most widely used symbolic machine learning algorithm.    algorithm was the most widely used analogical AI until the mid-1990s, and   such as the   (SVM) displaced k-nearest neighbor in the 1990s. 
The   is reportedly the "most widely used learner"  at Google, due in part to its scalability. 
  are also used as classifiers. 
 An artificial neural network is based on a collection of nodes also known as  , which loosely model the   in a biological brain. It is trained to recognise patterns; once trained, it can recognise those patterns in fresh data. There is an input, at least one hidden layer of nodes and an output. Each node applies a function and once the   crosses its specified threshold, the data is transmitted to the next layer. A network is typically called a deep neural network if it has at least 2 hidden layers. 
 Learning algorithms for neural networks use   to choose the weights that will get the right output for each input during training. The most common training technique is the   algorithm. 
Neural networks learn to model complex relationships between inputs and outputs and   in data. In theory, a neural network can learn any function. 
 In   the signal passes in only one direction.    feed the output signal back into the input, which allows short-term memories of previous input events.   is the most successful network architecture for recurrent networks. 
 
use only a single layer of neurons, deep learning  uses multiple layers.
  strengthen the connection between neurons that are "close" to each other—this is especially important in  , where a local set of neurons must   before the network can identify an object. 
 Deep learning 
uses several layers of neurons between the network's inputs and outputs. The multiple layers can progressively extract higher-level features from the raw input. For example, in  , lower layers may identify edges, while higher layers may identify the concepts relevant to a human such as digits or letters or faces. 
 Deep learning has profoundly improved the performance of programs in many important subfields of artificial intelligence, including  ,  ,  ,   and others. The reason that deep learning performs so well in so many applications is not known as of 2023. 
The sudden success of deep learning in 2012–2015 did not occur because of some new discovery or theoretical breakthrough (deep neural networks and backpropagation had been described by many people, as far back as the 1950s) 
but because of two factors: the incredible increase in computer power (including the hundred-fold increase in speed by switching to  ) and the availability of vast amounts of training data, especially the giant   used for benchmark testing, such as  . 
  (GPT) are   that are based on the semantic relationships between words in sentences ( ). Text-based GPT models are pre-trained on a large corpus of text which can be from the internet. The pre-training consists in predicting the next   (a token being usually a word, subword, or punctuation). Throughout this pre-training, GPT models accumulate knowledge about the world, and can then generate human-like text by repeatedly predicting the next token. Typically, a subsequent training phase makes the model more truthful, useful and harmless, usually with a technique called   (RLHF). Current GPT models are still prone to generating falsehoods called " ", although this can be reduced with RLHF and quality data. They are used in  , which allow you to ask a question or request a task in simple text. 
 Current models and services include:   (formerly Bard),  ,  ,  ,   and  .    GPT models can process different types of data ( ) such as images, videos, sound and text. 
 In the late 2010s,   (GPUs) that were increasingly designed with AI-specific enhancements and used with specialized   software, had replaced previously used   (CPUs) as the dominant means for large-scale (commercial and academic)   models' training.  Historically, specialized languages, such as  ,  ,   and others, had been used.
 AI and machine learning technology is used in most of the essential applications of the 2020s, including:   (such as  ),  ,   (offered by  ,   or  ), driving  ,   ( ,  ),   (such as   or  ),   (including  ,   and  ),   ( ,  ),   ( 's   or  's   and  's  ) and   (used by  , Apple's   and  ).
 The application of AI in   and   has the potential to increase patient care and quality of life.  Through the lens of the  , medical professionals are ethically compelled to use AI, if applications can more accurately diagnose and treat patients.
 For medical research, AI is an important tool for processing and integrating  . This is particularly important for   and   development which use   imaging as a key technique in fabrication.  It has been suggested that AI can overcome discrepancies in funding allocated to different fields of research.  New AI tools can deepen the understanding of biomedically relevant pathways. For example,   (2021) demonstrated the ability to approximate, in hours rather than months, the 3D  .  In 2023, it was reported that AI-guided drug discovery helped find a class of antibiotics capable of killing two different types of drug-resistant bacteria.  In 2024, researchers used machine learning to accelerate the search for   drug treatments. Their aim was to identify compounds that block the clumping, or aggregation, of   (the protein that characterises Parkinson's disease). They were able to speed up the initial screening process ten-fold, and to reduce the cost by a thousand-fold. 
  programs have been used since the 1950s to demonstrate and test AI's most advanced techniques.    became the first computer chess-playing system to beat a reigning world chess champion,  , on 11 May 1997.  In 2011, in a     exhibition match,  's  ,  , defeated the two greatest   champions,   and  , by a significant margin.  In March 2016,   won 4 out of 5 games of   in a match with Go champion  , becoming the first  -playing system to beat a professional Go player without  . Then in 2017 it  , who was the best Go player in the world.  Other programs handle   games, such as the  -playing program  .    developed increasingly generalistic   models, such as with  , which could be trained to play chess, Go, or   games.  In 2019, DeepMind's AlphaStar achieved grandmaster level in  , a particularly challenging real-time strategy game that involves incomplete knowledge of what happens on the map.  In 2021, an AI agent competed in a PlayStation Gran Turismo competition, winning against four of the world's best Gran Turismo drivers using deep reinforcement learning. 
 Various countries are deploying AI military applications.  The main applications enhance  , communications, sensors, integration and interoperability.  Research is targeting intelligence collection and analysis, logistics, cyber operations, information operations, and semiautonomous and  .  AI technologies enable coordination of sensors and effectors, threat detection and identification, marking of enemy positions,  , coordination and deconfliction of distributed   between networked combat vehicles involving manned and unmanned teams.  AI was incorporated into military operations in Iraq and Syria. 
 In November 2023, US Vice President   disclosed a declaration signed by 31 nations to set guardrails for the military use of AI. The commitments include using legal reviews to ensure the compliance of military AI with international laws, and being cautious and transparent in the development of this technology. 
 In the early 2020s,   gained widespread prominence. In March 2023, 58% of U.S. adults had heard about   and 14% had tried it.  The increasing realism and ease-of-use of AI-based   generators such as  ,  , and   sparked a trend of   AI-generated photos. Widespread attention was gained by a fake photo of   wearing a white puffer coat, the fictional arrest of  , and a hoax of an attack on the  , as well as the usage in professional creative arts. 
 There are also thousands of successful AI applications used to solve specific problems for specific industries or institutions. In a 2017 survey, one in five companies reported they had incorporated "AI" in some offerings or processes.  A few examples are  , medical diagnosis, military logistics, applications that predict the result of judicial decisions,  , or supply chain management.
 In agriculture, AI has helped farmers identify areas that need irrigation, fertilization, pesticide treatments or increasing yield. Agronomists use AI to conduct research and development. AI has been used to predict the ripening time for crops such as tomatoes, monitor soil moisture, operate agricultural robots, conduct predictive analytics, classify livestock pig call emotions, automate greenhouses, detect diseases and pests, and save water.
 Artificial intelligence is used in astronomy to analyze increasing amounts of available data and applications, mainly for "classification, regression, clustering, forecasting, generation, discovery, and the development of new scientific insights" for example for discovering exoplanets, forecasting solar activity, and distinguishing between signals and instrumental effects in gravitational wave astronomy. It could also be used for activities in space such as space exploration, including analysis of data from space missions, real-time science decisions of spacecraft, space debris avoidance, and more autonomous operation.
 AI has potential benefits and potential risks. AI may be able to advance science and find solutions for serious problems:   of   hopes to "solve intelligence, and then use that to solve everything else".  However, as the use of AI has become widespread, several unintended consequences and risks have been identified.  In-production systems can sometimes not factor ethics and bias into their AI training processes, especially when the AI algorithms are inherently unexplainable in deep learning. 
 Machine-learning algorithms require large amounts of data. The techniques used to acquire this data have raised concerns about  ,   and  .
 Technology companies collect a wide range of data from their users, including online activity, geolocation data, video and audio. 
For example, in order to build   algorithms,   has recorded millions of private conversations and allowed   to listen to and transcribe some of them.  Opinions about this widespread   range from those who see it as a   to those for whom it is clearly   and a violation of the  . 
 AI developers argue that this is the only way to deliver valuable applications. and have developed several techniques that attempt to preserve privacy while still obtaining the data, such as  ,   and  .  Since 2016, some privacy experts, such as  , have begun to view privacy in terms of  .   wrote that experts have pivoted "from the question of 'what they know' to the question of 'what they're doing with it'." 
 Generative AI is often trained on unlicensed copyrighted works, including in domains such as images or computer code; the output is then used under the rationale of " ". Website owners who do not wish to have their copyrighted content AI-indexed or 'scraped' can add code to their site if they do not want their website to be indexed by a search engine, which is currently available through certain services such as  . Experts disagree about how well and under what circumstances this rationale will hold up in courts of law; relevant factors may include "the purpose and character of the use of the copyrighted work" and "the effect upon the potential market for the copyrighted work".  In 2023, leading authors (including   and  ) sued AI companies for using their work to train generative AI. 
 ,   and others use   to guide users to more content. These AI programs were given the goal of   user engagement (that is, the only goal was to keep people watching). The AI learned that users tended to choose  ,  , and extreme   content, and, to keep them watching, the AI recommended more of it. Users also tended to watch more content on the same subject, so the AI led people into   where they received multiple versions of the same misinformation.  This convinced many users that the misinformation was true, and ultimately undermined trust in institutions, the media and the government.  The AI program had correctly learned to maximize its goal, but the result was harmful to society. After the U.S. election in 2016, major technology companies took steps to mitigate the problem.
 In 2022,   began to create images, audio, video and text that are indistinguishable from real photographs, recordings, films or human writing. It is possible for bad actors to use this technology to create massive amounts of misinformation or propaganda.  AI pioneer   expressed concern about AI enabling "authoritarian leaders to manipulate their electorates" on a large scale, among other risks. 
 Machine learning applications will be biased if they learn from biased data.  The developers may not be aware that the bias exists. 
Bias can be introduced by the way   is selected and by the way a model is deployed.  If a biased algorithm is used to make decisions that can seriously   people (as it can in  ,  ,  ,   or  ) then the algorithm may cause  . 
  in machine learning is the study of how to prevent the harm caused by algorithmic bias. It has become serious area of academic study within AI. Researchers have discovered it is not always possible to define "fairness" in a way that satisfies all stakeholders. 
 On June 28, 2015,  's new image labeling feature mistakenly identified Jacky Alcine and a friend as "gorillas" because they were black. The system was trained on a dataset that contained very few images of black people,  a problem called "sample size disparity".  Google "fixed" this problem by preventing the system from labelling   as a "gorilla". Eight years later, in 2023, Google Photos still could not identify a gorilla, and neither could similar products from Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Amazon. 
  is a commercial program widely used by   to assess the likelihood of a   becoming a  .
In 2016,   at   discovered that COMPAS exhibited racial bias, despite the fact that the program was not told the races of the defendants. Although the error rate for both whites and blacks was calibrated equal at exactly 61%, the errors for each race were different—the system consistently overestimated the chance that a black person would re-offend and would underestimate the chance that a white person would not re-offend.  In 2017, several researchers  showed that it was mathematically impossible for COMPAS to accommodate all possible measures of fairness when the base rates of re-offense were different for whites and blacks in the data. 
 A program can make biased decisions even if the data does not explicitly mention a problematic feature (such as "race" or "gender"). The feature will correlate with other features (like "address", "shopping history" or "first name"), and the program will make the same decisions based on these features as it would on "race" or "gender". 
Moritz Hardt said "the most robust fact in this research area is that fairness through blindness doesn't work." 
 Criticism of COMPAS highlighted that machine learning models are designed to make "predictions" that are only valid if we assume that the future will resemble the past. If they are trained on data that includes the results of racist decisions in the past, machine learning models must predict that racist decisions will be made in the future. If an application then uses these predictions as  , some of these "recommendations" will likely be racist.  Thus, machine learning is not well suited to help make decisions in areas where there is hope that the future will be   than the past. It is necessarily descriptive and not proscriptive. 
 Bias and unfairness may go undetected because the developers are overwhelmingly white and male: among AI engineers, about 4% are black and 20% are women. 
 At its 2022   (ACM FAccT 2022), the  , in Seoul, South Korea, presented and published findings that recommend that until AI and robotics systems are demonstrated to be free of bias mistakes, they are unsafe, and the use of self-learning neural networks trained on vast, unregulated sources of flawed internet data should be curtailed. 
 Many AI systems are so complex that their designers cannot explain how they reach their decisions.  Particularly with  , in which there are a large amount of non-  relationships between inputs and outputs. But some popular explainability techniques exist. 
 It is impossible to be certain that a program is operating correctly if no one knows how exactly it works. There have been many cases where a machine learning program passed rigorous tests, but nevertheless learned something different than what the programmers intended. For example, a system that could identify skin diseases better than medical professionals was found to actually have a strong tendency to classify images with a   as "cancerous", because pictures of malignancies typically include a ruler to show the scale.  Another machine learning system designed to help effectively allocate medical resources was found to classify patients with asthma as being at "low risk" of dying from pneumonia. Having asthma is actually a severe risk factor, but since the patients having asthma would usually get much more medical care, they were relatively unlikely to die according to the training data. The correlation between asthma and low risk of dying from pneumonia was real, but misleading. 
 People who have been harmed by an algorithm's decision have a right to an explanation.  Doctors, for example, are expected to clearly and completely explain to their colleagues the reasoning behind any decision they make. Early drafts of the European Union's   in 2016 included an explicit statement that this right exists.  Industry experts noted that this is an unsolved problem with no solution in sight. Regulators argued that nevertheless the harm is real: if the problem has no solution, the tools should not be used. 
  established the   ("Explainable Artificial Intelligence") program in 2014 to try and solve these problems.  
 There are several possible solutions to the transparency problem. SHAP tried to solve the transparency problems by visualising the contribution of each feature to the output.  LIME can locally approximate a model with a simpler, interpretable model.    provides a large number of outputs in addition to the target classification. These other outputs can help developers deduce what the network has learned.   ,   and other   methods can allow developers to see what different layers of a deep network have learned and produce output that can suggest what the network is learning. 
 Artificial intelligence provides a number of tools that are useful to  , such as  ,  ,   or  .
 A lethal autonomous weapon is a machine that locates, selects and engages human targets without human supervision.  Widely available AI tools can be used by bad actors to develop inexpensive autonomous weapons and, if produced at scale, they are potentially  .  Even when used in conventional warfare, it is unlikely that they will be unable to reliably choose targets and could potentially  .  In 2014, 30 nations (including China) supported a ban on autonomous weapons under the  '  , however the   and others disagreed.  By 2015, over fifty countries were reported to be researching battlefield robots. 
 AI tools make it easier for   to efficiently control their citizens in several ways.   and   allow widespread  .  , operating this data, can   potential enemies of the state and prevent them from hiding.   can precisely target   and   for maximum effect.   and   aid in producing misinformation. Advanced AI can make authoritarian   more competitive than liberal and decentralized systems such as  . It lowers the cost and difficulty of   and  .  All these technologies have been available since 2020 or earlier—AI   are already being used for   in China. 
 There many other ways that AI is expected to help bad actors, some of which can not be foreseen. For example, machine-learning AI is able to design tens of thousands of toxic molecules in a matter of hours. 
 Training AI systems requires an enormous amount of computing power. Usually only   companies have the financial resources to make such investments. Smaller startups such as   and   end up buying access to   from   and   respectively. 
 Economists have frequently highlighted the risks of redundancies from AI, and speculated about unemployment if there is no adequate social policy for full employment. 
 In the past, technology has tended to increase rather than reduce total employment, but economists acknowledge that "we're in uncharted territory" with AI.  A survey of economists showed disagreement about whether the increasing use of robots and AI will cause a substantial increase in long-term  , but they generally agree that it could be a net benefit if   gains are  .  Risk estimates vary; for example, in the 2010s, Michael Osborne and   estimated 47% of U.S. jobs are at "high risk" of potential automation, while an OECD report classified only 9% of U.S. jobs as "high risk".  The methodology of speculating about future employment levels has been criticised as lacking evidential foundation, and for implying that technology, rather than social policy, creates unemployment, as opposed to redundancies.  In April 2023, it was reported that 70% of the jobs for Chinese video game illustrators had been eliminated by generative artificial intelligence. 
 Unlike previous waves of automation, many middle-class jobs may be eliminated by artificial intelligence;   stated in 2015 that "the worry that AI could do to white-collar jobs what steam power did to blue-collar ones during the Industrial Revolution" is "worth taking seriously".  Jobs at extreme risk range from   to fast food cooks, while job demand is likely to increase for care-related professions ranging from personal healthcare to the clergy. 
 From the early days of the development of artificial intelligence, there have been arguments, for example, those put forward by  , about whether tasks that can be done by computers actually should be done by them, given the difference between computers and humans, and between quantitative calculation and qualitative, value-based judgement. 
 It has been argued AI will become so powerful that humanity may irreversibly lose control of it. This could, as physicist   stated, " ".  This scenario has been common in science fiction, when a computer or robot suddenly develops a human-like "self-awareness" (or "sentience" or "consciousness") and becomes a malevolent character.  These sci-fi scenarios are misleading in several ways.
 First, AI does not require human-like " " to be an existential risk. Modern AI programs are given specific goals and use learning and intelligence to achieve them. Philosopher   argued that if one gives   goal to a sufficiently powerful AI, it may choose to destroy humanity to achieve it (he used the example of a  ).    gives the example of household robot that tries to find a way to kill its owner to prevent it from being unplugged, reasoning that "you can't fetch the coffee if you're dead."  In order to be safe for humanity, a   would have to be genuinely   with humanity's morality and values so that it is "fundamentally on our side". 
 Second,   argues that AI does not require a robot body or physical control to pose an existential risk. The essential parts of civilization are not physical. Things like  ,  ,  ,   and the   are made of  ; they exist because there are stories that billions of people believe. The current prevalence of   suggests that an AI could use language to convince people to believe anything, even to take actions that are destructive. 
 The opinions amongst experts and industry insiders are mixed, with sizable fractions both concerned and unconcerned by risk from eventual superintelligent AI.  Personalities such as  ,  , and   have expressed concern about existential risk from AI. 
AI pioneers including  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and   have expressed concerns about the risks of AI. In 2023, many leading AI experts issued the joint statement that "Mitigating the risk of extinction from AI should be a global priority alongside other societal-scale risks such as pandemics and nuclear war". 
 Other researchers, however, spoke in favor of a less dystopian view. AI pioneer   did not sign the joint statement, emphasising that in 95% of all cases, AI research is about making "human lives longer and healthier and easier."  While the tools that are now being used to improve lives can also be used by bad actors, "they can also be used against the bad actors."    also argued that "it's a mistake to fall for the doomsday hype on AI—and that regulators who do will only benefit vested interests."    "scoffs at his peers' dystopian scenarios of supercharged misinformation and even, eventually, human extinction."  In the early 2010s, experts argued that the risks are too distant in the future to warrant research or that humans will be valuable from the perspective of a superintelligent machine.  However, after 2016, the study of current and future risks and possible solutions became a serious area of research. 
 Friendly AI are machines that have been designed from the beginning to minimize risks and to make choices that benefit humans.  , who coined the term, argues that developing friendly AI should be a higher research priority: it may require a large investment and it must be completed before AI becomes an existential risk. 
 Machines with intelligence have the potential to use their intelligence to make ethical decisions. The field of machine ethics provides machines with ethical principles and procedures for resolving ethical dilemmas. 
The field of machine ethics is also called computational morality, 
and was founded at an   symposium in 2005. 
 Other approaches include  's "artificial moral agents"  and  's   for developing provably beneficial machines. 
 Active organizations in the AI open-source community include  ,   ,    and  .  Various AI models, such as  ,   or  , have been made open-weight,  meaning that their architecture and trained parameters (the "weights") are publicly available. Open-weight models can be freely  , which allows companies to specialize them with their own data and for their own use-case.  Open-weight models are useful for research and innovation, but can also be misused. Since they can be fine-tuned, any built-in security measure, such as objecting to harmful requests, can be trained away until it becomes ineffective. Some researchers warn that future AI models may develop dangerous capabilities (such as the potential to drastically facilitate  ), and that once released on the Internet, they can't be deleted everywhere if needed. They recommend pre-release audits and cost-benefit analyses. 
 Artificial Intelligence projects can have their ethical permissibility tested while designing, developing, and implementing an AI system. An AI framework such as the Care and Act Framework containing the SUM values—developed by the   tests projects in four main areas: 
 Other developments in ethical frameworks include those decided upon during the  , the Montreal Declaration for Responsible AI, and the IEEE's Ethics of Autonomous Systems initiative, among others;  however, these principles do not go without their criticisms, especially regards to the people chosen contributes to these frameworks. 
 Promotion of the wellbeing of the people and communities that these technologies affect requires consideration of the social and ethical implications at all stages of AI system design, development and implementation, and collaboration between job roles such as data scientists, product managers, data engineers, domain experts, and delivery managers. 
 The regulation of artificial intelligence is the development of public sector policies and laws for promoting and regulating artificial intelligence (AI); it is therefore related to the broader regulation of algorithms.  The regulatory and policy landscape for AI is an emerging issue in jurisdictions globally.  According to AI Index at  , the annual number of AI-related laws passed in the 127 survey countries jumped from one passed in 2016 to 37 passed in 2022 alone.  Between 2016 and 2020, more than 30 countries adopted dedicated strategies for AI.  Most EU member states had released national AI strategies, as had Canada, China, India, Japan, Mauritius, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, U.S., and Vietnam. Others were in the process of elaborating their own AI strategy, including Bangladesh, Malaysia and Tunisia.  The   was launched in June 2020, stating a need for AI to be developed in accordance with human rights and democratic values, to ensure public confidence and trust in the technology.   ,  , and   published a joint statement in November 2021 calling for a government commission to regulate AI.  In 2023, OpenAI leaders published recommendations for the governance of superintelligence, which they believe may happen in less than 10 years.  In 2023, the United Nations also launched an advisory body to provide recommendations on AI governance; the body comprises technology company executives, governments officials and academics. 
 In a 2022   survey, attitudes towards AI varied greatly by country; 78% of Chinese citizens, but only 35% of Americans, agreed that "products and services using AI have more benefits than drawbacks".  A 2023  /Ipsos poll found that 61% of Americans agree, and 22% disagree, that AI poses risks to humanity.  In a 2023   poll, 35% of Americans thought it "very important", and an additional 41% thought it "somewhat important", for the federal government to regulate AI, versus 13% responding "not very important" and 8% responding "not at all important". 
 In November 2023, the first global   was held in   in the UK to discuss the near and far term risks of AI and the possibility of mandatory and voluntary regulatory frameworks.  28 countries including the United States, China, and the European Union issued a declaration at the start of the summit, calling for international co-operation to manage the challenges and risks of artificial intelligence. 
 The study of mechanical or "formal" reasoning began with philosophers and mathematicians in antiquity. The study of logic led directly to  's  , which suggested that a machine, by shuffling symbols as simple as "0" and "1", could simulate any conceivable form of mathematical reasoning.  This, along with concurrent discoveries in  ,   and  , led researchers to consider the possibility of building an "electronic brain".  
They developed several areas of research that would become part of AI, 
such as   and   design for "artificial neurons" in 1943,  and Turing's influential 1950 paper ' ', which introduced the   and showed that "machine intelligence" was plausible. 
 The field of AI research was founded at   at   in 1956.  The attendees became the leaders of AI research in the 1960s.  They and their students produced programs that the press described as "astonishing":  computers were learning   strategies, solving word problems in algebra, proving   and speaking English.  Artificial intelligence laboratories were set up at a number of British and U.S. Universities in the latter 1950s and early 1960s. 
 Researchers in the 1960s and the 1970s were convinced that their methods would eventually succeed in creating a machine with   and considered this the goal of their field.    predicted, "machines will be capable, within twenty years, of doing any work a man can do".    agreed, writing, "within a generation ... the problem of creating 'artificial intelligence' will substantially be solved".  They had, however, underestimated the difficulty of the problem.  In 1974, both the U.S. and British governments cut off exploratory research in response to the   of   and ongoing pressure from the U.S. Congress to  .   's and  's book   was understood as proving that   would never be useful for solving real-world tasks, thus discrediting the approach altogether.  The " ", a period when obtaining funding for AI projects was difficult, followed. 
 In the early 1980s, AI research was revived by the commercial success of  ,  a form of AI program that simulated the knowledge and analytical skills of human experts. By 1985, the market for AI had reached over a billion dollars. At the same time, Japan's   project inspired the U.S. and British governments to restore funding for  .  However, beginning with the collapse of the   market in 1987, AI once again fell into disrepute, and a second, longer-lasting winter began. 
 Up to this point, most of AI's funding had gone to projects which used high level   to represent   like plans, goals, beliefs and known facts. In the 1980s, some researchers began to doubt that this approach would be able to imitate all the processes of human cognition, especially  ,  ,   and  ,  and began to look into "sub-symbolic" approaches.    rejected "representation" in general and focussed directly on engineering machines that move and survive.   ,   and others developed methods that handled incomplete and uncertain information by making reasonable guesses rather than precise logic.  But the most important development was the revival of " ", including neural network research, by   and others.  In 1990,   successfully showed that   can recognize handwritten digits, the first of many successful applications of neural networks. 
 AI gradually restored its reputation in the late 1990s and early 21st century by exploiting formal mathematical methods and by finding specific solutions to specific problems. This " " and "formal" focus allowed researchers to produce verifiable results and collaborate with other fields (such as  ,   and  ).  By 2000, solutions developed by AI researchers were being widely used, although in the 1990s they were rarely described as "artificial intelligence". 
However, several academic researchers became concerned that AI was no longer pursuing its original goal of creating versatile, fully intelligent machines. Beginning around 2002, they founded the subfield of   (or "AGI"), which had several well-funded institutions by the 2010s. 
  began to dominate industry benchmarks in 2012 and was adopted throughout the field. 
For many specific tasks, other methods were abandoned. 
Deep learning's success was based on both hardware improvements ( ,   ,  ) and access to   (including curated datasets,  such as  ). Deep learning's success led to an enormous increase in interest and funding in AI.  The amount of machine learning research (measured by total publications) increased by 50% in the years 2015–2019. 
 In 2016, issues of   and the misuse of technology were catapulted into center stage at machine learning conferences, publications vastly increased, funding became available, and many researchers re-focussed their careers on these issues. The   became a serious field of academic study. 
 In the late teens and early 2020s,   companies began to deliver programs that created enormous interest. In 2015,  , developed by  , beat the world champion  . The program was taught only the rules of the game and developed strategy by itself.   is a   that was released in 2020 by   and is capable of generating high-quality human-like text.  These programs, and others, inspired an aggressive  , where large companies began investing billions in AI research. According to 'AI Impacts', about $50 billion annually was invested in "AI" around 2022 in the U.S. alone and about 20% of the new U.S. Computer Science PhD graduates have specialized in "AI". 
About 800,000 "AI"-related U.S. job openings existed in 2022. 
  wrote in 1950 "I propose to consider the question 'can machines think'?"  He advised changing the question from whether a machine "thinks", to "whether or not it is possible for machinery to show intelligent behaviour".  He devised the Turing test, which measures the ability of a machine to simulate human conversation.  Since we can only observe the behavior of the machine, it does not matter if it is "actually" thinking or literally has a "mind". Turing notes that   but "it is usual to have a polite convention that everyone thinks" 
  and   agree with Turing that intelligence must be defined in terms of external behavior, not internal structure.  However, they are critical that the test requires the machine to imitate humans. "  texts," they wrote, "do not define the goal of their field as making 'machines that fly so exactly like   that they can fool other pigeons. "  AI founder   agreed, writing that "Artificial intelligence is not, by definition, simulation of human intelligence". 
 McCarthy defines intelligence as "the computational part of the ability to achieve goals in the world."  Another AI founder,   similarly describes it as "the ability to solve hard problems".  The leading AI textbook defines it as the study of agents that perceive their environment and take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.  These definitions view intelligence in terms of well-defined problems with well-defined solutions, where both the difficulty of the problem and the performance of the program are direct measures of the "intelligence" of the machine—and no other philosophical discussion is required, or may not even be possible.
 Another definition has been adopted by Google,  a major practitioner in the field of AI. This definition stipulates the ability of systems to synthesize information as the manifestation of intelligence, similar to the way it is defined in biological intelligence.
 No established unifying theory or   has guided AI research for most of its history.  The unprecedented success of statistical machine learning in the 2010s eclipsed all other approaches (so much so that some sources, especially in the business world, use the term "artificial intelligence" to mean "machine learning with neural networks"). This approach is mostly  ,   and  . Critics argue that these questions may have to be revisited by future generations of AI researchers.
  (or " ")  simulated the high-level conscious reasoning that people use when they solve puzzles, express legal reasoning and do mathematics. They were highly successful at "intelligent" tasks such as algebra or IQ tests. In the 1960s, Newell and Simon proposed the  : "A physical symbol system has the necessary and sufficient means of general intelligent action." 
 However, the symbolic approach failed on many tasks that humans solve easily, such as learning, recognizing an object or commonsense reasoning.   is the discovery that high-level "intelligent" tasks were easy for AI, but low level "instinctive" tasks were extremely difficult.  Philosopher   had   since the 1960s that human expertise depends on unconscious instinct rather than conscious symbol manipulation, and on having a "feel" for the situation, rather than explicit symbolic knowledge.  Although his arguments had been ridiculed and ignored when they were first presented, eventually, AI research came to agree with him. 
 The issue is not resolved:   reasoning can make many of the same inscrutable mistakes that human intuition does, such as  . Critics such as   argue continuing research into symbolic AI will still be necessary to attain general intelligence,  in part because sub-symbolic AI is a move away from  : it can be difficult or impossible to understand why a modern statistical AI program made a particular decision. The emerging field of   attempts to bridge the two approaches.
 "Neats" hope that intelligent behavior is described using simple, elegant principles (such as  ,  , or  ). "Scruffies" expect that it necessarily requires solving a large number of unrelated problems. Neats defend their programs with theoretical rigor, scruffies rely mainly on incremental testing to see if they work. This issue was actively discussed in the 1970s and 1980s,  but eventually was seen as irrelevant. Modern AI has elements of both.
 Finding a provably correct or optimal solution is   for many important problems.  Soft computing is a set of techniques, including  ,   and neural networks, that are tolerant of imprecision, uncertainty, partial truth and approximation. Soft computing was introduced in the late 1980s and most successful AI programs in the 21st century are examples of soft computing with neural networks.
 AI researchers are divided as to whether to pursue the goals of artificial general intelligence and   directly or to solve as many specific problems as possible (narrow AI) in hopes these solutions will lead indirectly to the field's long-term goals.  General intelligence is difficult to define and difficult to measure, and modern AI has had more verifiable successes by focusing on specific problems with specific solutions. The experimental sub-field of artificial general intelligence studies this area exclusively.
 The   does not know whether a machine can have a  ,   and  , in the same sense that human beings do. This issue considers the internal experiences of the machine, rather than its external behavior. Mainstream AI research considers this issue irrelevant because it does not affect the goals of the field: to build machines that can solve problems using intelligence.   and   add that "[t]he additional project of making a machine conscious in exactly the way humans are is not one that we are equipped to take on."  However, the question has become central to the philosophy of mind. It is also typically the central question at issue in  .
  identified two problems in understanding the mind, which he named the "hard" and "easy" problems of consciousness.  The easy problem is understanding how the brain processes signals, makes plans and controls behavior. The hard problem is explaining how this   or why it should feel like anything at all, assuming we are right in thinking that it truly does feel like something (Dennett's consciousness illusionism says this is an illusion). Human   is easy to explain, however, human   is difficult to explain. For example, it is easy to imagine a color-blind person who has learned to identify which objects in their field of view are red, but it is not clear what would be required for the person to  . 
 Computationalism is the position in the   that the human mind is an information processing system and that thinking is a form of computing. Computationalism argues that the relationship between mind and body is similar or identical to the relationship between software and hardware and thus may be a solution to the  . This philosophical position was inspired by the work of AI researchers and cognitive scientists in the 1960s and was originally proposed by philosophers   and  . 
 Philosopher   characterized this position as " ": "The appropriately programmed computer with the right inputs and outputs would thereby have a mind in exactly the same sense human beings have minds."  Searle counters this assertion with his Chinese room argument, which attempts to show that, even if a machine perfectly simulates human behavior, there is still no reason to suppose it also has a mind. 
 It is difficult or impossible to reliably evaluate whether an advanced   (has the ability to feel), and if so, to what degree.  But if there is a significant chance that a given machine can feel and suffer, then it may be entitled to certain rights or welfare protection measures, similarly to animals.    (a set of capacities related to high intelligence, such as discernment or  ) may provide another moral basis for AI rights.    are also sometimes proposed as a practical way to integrate autonomous agents into society. 
 In 2017, the European Union considered granting "electronic personhood" to some of the most capable AI systems. Similarly to the legal status of companies, it would have conferred rights but also responsibilities.  Critics argued in 2018 that granting rights to AI systems would downplay the importance of  , and that legislation should focus on user needs rather than speculative futuristic scenarios. They also noted that robots lacked the autonomy to take part to society on their own. 
 Progress in AI increased interest in the topic. Proponents of AI welfare and rights often argue that AI sentience, if it emerges, would be particularly easy to deny. They warn that this may be a   analogous to   or  , which could lead to   if sentient AI is created and carelessly exploited. 
 A   is a hypothetical agent that would possess intelligence far surpassing that of the brightest and most gifted human mind. 
 If research into   produced sufficiently intelligent software, it might be able to  . The improved software would be even better at improving itself, leading to what   called an " " and   called a " ". 
 However, technologies cannot improve exponentially indefinitely, and typically follow an  , slowing when they reach the physical limits of what the technology can do. 
 Robot designer  , cyberneticist  , and inventor   have predicted that humans and machines will merge in the future into   that are more capable and powerful than either. This idea, called transhumanism, has roots in   and  . 
  argues that "artificial intelligence is the next stage in evolution", an idea first proposed by  's " " as far back as 1863, and expanded upon by   in his book of the same name in 1998. 
 Thought-capable artificial beings have appeared as storytelling devices since antiquity,  and have been a persistent theme in  . 
 A common   in these works began with  's  , where a human creation becomes a threat to its masters. This includes such works as   and     (both 1968), with  , the murderous computer in charge of the   spaceship, as well as   (1984) and   (1999). In contrast, the rare loyal robots such as Gort from   (1951) and Bishop from   (1986) are less prominent in popular culture. 
  introduced the   in many books and stories, most notably the "Multivac" series about a super-intelligent computer of the same name. Asimov's laws are often brought up during lay discussions of machine ethics;  while almost all artificial intelligence researchers are familiar with Asimov's laws through popular culture, they generally consider the laws useless for many reasons, one of which is their ambiguity. 
 Several works use AI to force us to confront the fundamental question of what makes us human, showing us artificial beings that have  , and thus to suffer. This appears in  's  , the films   and  , as well as the novel  , by  . Dick considers the idea that our understanding of human subjectivity is altered by technology created with artificial intelligence. 
 The two most widely used textbooks in 2023. (See the  ).
 These were the four of the most widely used AI textbooks in 2008:
 Later editions.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_intelligence

Content: 
  ( ), in its broadest sense, is   exhibited by  , particularly  . It is a   in   that develops and studies methods and software which enable machines to   and uses   and intelligence to take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.  Such machines may be called AIs.
  is widely used  ,  , and science. Some high-profile applications include advanced   (e.g.,  );   (used by  ,  , and  ); interacting   (e.g.,  ,  , and  );   (e.g.,  );   and   tools (e.g.,   and  ); and   play and analysis in   (e.g.,   and  ).  However, many AI applications are not perceived as AI: "A lot of cutting edge AI has filtered into general applications, often without being called AI because once something becomes useful enough and common enough it's  ." 
  was the first person to conduct substantial research in the field that he called machine intelligence.  Artificial intelligence was founded as an academic discipline in 1956.  The field went through multiple cycles of optimism,  followed by periods of disappointment and loss of funding, known as  .  Funding and interest vastly increased after 2012 when   surpassed all previous AI techniques,  and after 2017 with the  .  This led to the   of the early 2020s, with companies, universities, and laboratories overwhelmingly based in the United States pioneering significant  . 
 The growing use of artificial intelligence in the 21st century is influencing   towards increased automation,  , and the   into various economic sectors and areas of life,  ,  , government, industry, and  . This raises questions about  ,  , and  , prompting discussions about   to ensure the  . 
 The various sub-fields of AI research are centered around particular goals and the use of particular tools. The traditional goals of AI research include  ,  ,  ,  ,  , perception, and support for  .   —the ability to complete any task performable by a human on an at least equal level—is among the field's long-term goals. 
 To reach these goals, AI researchers have adapted and integrated a wide range of techniques, including   and  ,  ,  , and methods based on  ,  , and  .  AI also draws upon  ,  ,  ,  , and other fields. 
 The general problem of simulating (or creating) intelligence has been broken into sub-problems. These consist of particular traits or capabilities that researchers expect an intelligent system to display. The traits described below have received the most attention and cover the scope of AI research. 
 Early researchers developed algorithms that imitated step-by-step reasoning that humans use when they solve puzzles or make logical  .  By the late 1980s and 1990s, methods were developed for dealing with   or incomplete information, employing concepts from   and  . 
 Many of these algorithms are insufficient for solving large reasoning problems because they experience a "combinatorial explosion": they became exponentially slower as the problems grew larger.  Even humans rarely use the step-by-step deduction that early AI research could model. They solve most of their problems using fast, intuitive judgments.  Accurate and efficient reasoning is an unsolved problem.
  and   allow AI programs to answer questions intelligently and make deductions about real-world facts. Formal knowledge representations are used in content-based indexing and retrieval,  scene interpretation,  clinical decision support,  knowledge discovery (mining "interesting" and actionable inferences from large  ),  and other areas. 
 A   is a body of knowledge represented in a form that can be used by a program. An   is the set of objects, relations, concepts, and properties used by a particular domain of knowledge.  Knowledge bases need to represent things such as: objects, properties, categories and relations between objects;  situations, events, states and time;  causes and effects;  knowledge about knowledge (what we know about what other people know);    (things that humans assume are true until they are told differently and will remain true even when other facts are changing);  and many other aspects and domains of knowledge.
 Among the most difficult problems in knowledge representation are: the breadth of commonsense knowledge (the set of atomic facts that the average person knows is enormous);  and the sub-symbolic form of most commonsense knowledge (much of what people know is not represented as "facts" or "statements" that they could express verbally).  There is also the difficulty of  , the problem of obtaining knowledge for AI applications. 
 An "agent" is anything that perceives and takes actions in the world. A   has goals or preferences and takes actions to make them happen.  In  , the agent has a specific goal.  In  , the agent has preferences—there are some situations it would prefer to be in, and some situations it is trying to avoid. The decision making agent assigns a number to each situation (called the " ") that measures how much the agent prefers it. For each possible action, it can calculate the " ": the   of all possible outcomes of the action, weighted by the probability that the outcome will occur. It can then choose the action with the maximum expected utility. 
 In  , the agent knows exactly what the effect of any action will be.  In most real-world problems, however, the agent may not be certain about the situation they are in (it is "unknown" or "unobservable") and it may not know for certain what will happen after each possible action (it is not "deterministic"). It must choose an action by making a probabilistic guess and then reassess the situation to see if the action worked. 
 In some problems, the agent's preferences may be uncertain, especially if there are other agents or humans involved. These can be learned (e.g., with  ) or the agent can seek information to improve its preferences.    can be used to weigh the value of exploratory or experimental actions.  The space of possible future actions and situations is typically   large, so the agents must take actions and evaluate situations while being uncertain what the outcome will be.
 A   has a   that describes the probability that a particular action will change the state in a particular way, and a   that supplies the utility of each state and the cost of each action. A   associates a decision with each possible state. The policy could be calculated (e.g., by  ), be  , or it can be learned. 
  describes rational behavior of multiple interacting agents, and is used in AI programs that make decisions that involve other agents. 
  is the study of programs that can improve their performance on a given task automatically.  It has been a part of AI from the beginning. 
 There are several kinds of machine learning.   analyzes a stream of data and finds patterns and makes predictions without any other guidance.    requires a human to label the input data first, and comes in two main varieties:   (where the program must learn to predict what category the input belongs in) and   (where the program must deduce a numeric function based on numeric input). 
 In   the agent is rewarded for good responses and punished for bad ones. The agent learns to choose responses that are classified as "good".    is when the knowledge gained from one problem is applied to a new problem.    is a type of machine learning that runs inputs through biologically inspired   for all of these types of learning. 
  can assess learners by  , by   (how much data is required), or by other notions of  . 
  (NLP)  allows programs to read, write and communicate in human languages such as  . Specific problems include  ,  ,  ,  ,   and  . 
 Early work, based on  's   and  , had difficulty with   unless restricted to small domains called " " (due to the common sense knowledge problem ).   believed that it was meaning and not grammar that was the key to understanding languages, and that   and not dictionaries should be the basis of computational language structure.
 Modern deep learning techniques for NLP include   (representing words, typically as   encoding their meaning),    (a deep learning architecture using an   mechanism),  and others.  In 2019,   (or "GPT") language models began to generate coherent text,  and by 2023 these models were able to get human-level scores on the  ,   test,   test, and many other real-world applications. 
  is the ability to use input from sensors (such as cameras, microphones, wireless signals, active  , sonar, radar, and  ) to deduce aspects of the world.   is the ability to analyze visual input. 
 The field includes  ,   ,   ,  ,  and  . 
  is an interdisciplinary umbrella that comprises systems that recognize, interpret, process or simulate human  .  For example, some   are programmed to speak conversationally or even to banter humorously; it makes them appear more sensitive to the emotional dynamics of human interaction, or to otherwise facilitate  .
 However, this tends to give naïve users an unrealistic conception of the intelligence of existing computer agents.  Moderate successes related to affective computing include textual   and, more recently,  , wherein AI classifies the affects displayed by a videotaped subject. 
 A machine with   should be able to solve a wide variety of problems with breadth and versatility similar to human intelligence. 
 AI research uses a wide variety of techniques to accomplish the goals above. 
 AI can solve many problems by intelligently searching through many possible solutions.  There are two very different kinds of search used in AI:   and  .
  searches through a tree of possible states to try to find a goal state.  For example,   algorithms search through trees of goals and subgoals, attempting to find a path to a target goal, a process called  . 
  are rarely sufficient for most real-world problems: the   (the number of places to search) quickly grows to  . The result is a search that is   or never completes.  " " or "rules of thumb" can help to prioritize choices that are more likely to reach a goal. 
  is used for   programs, such as chess or Go. It searches through a   of possible moves and counter-moves, looking for a winning position. 
  uses   to find a solution to a problem. It begins with some form of guess and refines it incrementally. 
  is a type of local search that optimizes a set of numerical parameters by incrementally adjusting them to minimize a  . Variants of gradient descent are commonly used to train neural networks. 
 Another type of local search is  , which aims to iteratively improve a set of candidate solutions by "mutating" and "recombining" them,   only the fittest to survive each generation. 
 Distributed search processes can coordinate via   algorithms. Two popular swarm algorithms used in search are   (inspired by bird  ) and   (inspired by  ). 
 Formal   is used for   and  . 
Formal logic comes in two main forms:   (which operates on statements that are true or false and uses   such as "and", "or", "not" and "implies")  and   (which also operates on objects, predicates and relations and uses   such as "    is a  " and "There are    s that are  s"). 
  in logic is the process of   a new statement ( ) from other statements that are given and assumed to be true (the  ).  Proofs can be structured as proof  , in which nodes are labelled by sentences, and children nodes are connected to  parent nodes by  .
 Given a problem and a set of premises, problem-solving reduces to searching for a proof tree whose root node is labelled by a solution of the problem and whose leaf nodes are labelled by premises or  . In the case of  , problem-solving search can be performed by reasoning   from the premises or   from the problem.  In the more general case of the clausal form of  ,   is a single, axiom-free rule of inference, in which a problem is solved by proving a contradiction from premises that include the negation of the problem to be solved. 
 Inference in both Horn clause logic and first-order logic is  , and therefore  . However, backward reasoning with Horn clauses, which underpins computation in the   language  , is  . Moreover, its efficiency is competitive with computation in other   languages. 
  assigns a "degree of truth" between 0 and 1. It can therefore handle propositions that are vague and partially true. 
 , including logic programming with  , are designed to handle  . 
Other specialized versions of logic have been developed to describe many complex domains.
 Many problems in AI (including in reasoning, planning, learning, perception, and robotics) require the agent to operate with incomplete or uncertain information. AI researchers have devised a number of tools to solve these problems using methods from   theory and economics.  Precise mathematical tools have been developed that analyze how an agent can make choices and plan, using  ,  ,  and  .  These tools include models such as  ,  dynamic  ,    and  . 
  are a tool that can be used for   (using the   algorithm),    (using the  ),    (using  )  and   (using  ). 
 
Probabilistic algorithms can also be used for filtering, prediction, smoothing and finding explanations for streams of data, helping   systems to analyze processes that occur over time (e.g.,   or  ). The simplest AI applications can be divided into two types: classifiers (e.g., "if shiny then diamond"), on one hand, and controllers (e.g., "if diamond then pick up"), on the other hand.   are functions that use   to determine the closest match. They can be fine-tuned based on chosen examples using  . Each pattern (also called an " ") is labeled with a certain predefined class. All the observations combined with their class labels are known as a  . When a new observation is received, that observation is classified based on previous experience. 
 There are many kinds of classifiers in use. The   is the simplest and most widely used symbolic machine learning algorithm.    algorithm was the most widely used analogical AI until the mid-1990s, and   such as the   (SVM) displaced k-nearest neighbor in the 1990s. 
The   is reportedly the "most widely used learner"  at Google, due in part to its scalability. 
  are also used as classifiers. 
 An artificial neural network is based on a collection of nodes also known as  , which loosely model the   in a biological brain. It is trained to recognise patterns; once trained, it can recognise those patterns in fresh data. There is an input, at least one hidden layer of nodes and an output. Each node applies a function and once the   crosses its specified threshold, the data is transmitted to the next layer. A network is typically called a deep neural network if it has at least 2 hidden layers. 
 Learning algorithms for neural networks use   to choose the weights that will get the right output for each input during training. The most common training technique is the   algorithm. 
Neural networks learn to model complex relationships between inputs and outputs and   in data. In theory, a neural network can learn any function. 
 In   the signal passes in only one direction.    feed the output signal back into the input, which allows short-term memories of previous input events.   is the most successful network architecture for recurrent networks. 
 
use only a single layer of neurons, deep learning  uses multiple layers.
  strengthen the connection between neurons that are "close" to each other—this is especially important in  , where a local set of neurons must   before the network can identify an object. 
 Deep learning 
uses several layers of neurons between the network's inputs and outputs. The multiple layers can progressively extract higher-level features from the raw input. For example, in  , lower layers may identify edges, while higher layers may identify the concepts relevant to a human such as digits or letters or faces. 
 Deep learning has profoundly improved the performance of programs in many important subfields of artificial intelligence, including  ,  ,  ,   and others. The reason that deep learning performs so well in so many applications is not known as of 2023. 
The sudden success of deep learning in 2012–2015 did not occur because of some new discovery or theoretical breakthrough (deep neural networks and backpropagation had been described by many people, as far back as the 1950s) 
but because of two factors: the incredible increase in computer power (including the hundred-fold increase in speed by switching to  ) and the availability of vast amounts of training data, especially the giant   used for benchmark testing, such as  . 
  (GPT) are   that are based on the semantic relationships between words in sentences ( ). Text-based GPT models are pre-trained on a large corpus of text which can be from the internet. The pre-training consists in predicting the next   (a token being usually a word, subword, or punctuation). Throughout this pre-training, GPT models accumulate knowledge about the world, and can then generate human-like text by repeatedly predicting the next token. Typically, a subsequent training phase makes the model more truthful, useful and harmless, usually with a technique called   (RLHF). Current GPT models are still prone to generating falsehoods called " ", although this can be reduced with RLHF and quality data. They are used in  , which allow you to ask a question or request a task in simple text. 
 Current models and services include:   (formerly Bard),  ,  ,  ,   and  .    GPT models can process different types of data ( ) such as images, videos, sound and text. 
 In the late 2010s,   (GPUs) that were increasingly designed with AI-specific enhancements and used with specialized   software, had replaced previously used   (CPUs) as the dominant means for large-scale (commercial and academic)   models' training.  Historically, specialized languages, such as  ,  ,   and others, had been used.
 AI and machine learning technology is used in most of the essential applications of the 2020s, including:   (such as  ),  ,   (offered by  ,   or  ), driving  ,   ( ,  ),   (such as   or  ),   (including  ,   and  ),   ( ,  ),   ( 's   or  's   and  's  ) and   (used by  , Apple's   and  ).
 The application of AI in   and   has the potential to increase patient care and quality of life.  Through the lens of the  , medical professionals are ethically compelled to use AI, if applications can more accurately diagnose and treat patients.
 For medical research, AI is an important tool for processing and integrating  . This is particularly important for   and   development which use   imaging as a key technique in fabrication.  It has been suggested that AI can overcome discrepancies in funding allocated to different fields of research.  New AI tools can deepen the understanding of biomedically relevant pathways. For example,   (2021) demonstrated the ability to approximate, in hours rather than months, the 3D  .  In 2023, it was reported that AI-guided drug discovery helped find a class of antibiotics capable of killing two different types of drug-resistant bacteria.  In 2024, researchers used machine learning to accelerate the search for   drug treatments. Their aim was to identify compounds that block the clumping, or aggregation, of   (the protein that characterises Parkinson's disease). They were able to speed up the initial screening process ten-fold, and to reduce the cost by a thousand-fold. 
  programs have been used since the 1950s to demonstrate and test AI's most advanced techniques.    became the first computer chess-playing system to beat a reigning world chess champion,  , on 11 May 1997.  In 2011, in a     exhibition match,  's  ,  , defeated the two greatest   champions,   and  , by a significant margin.  In March 2016,   won 4 out of 5 games of   in a match with Go champion  , becoming the first  -playing system to beat a professional Go player without  . Then in 2017 it  , who was the best Go player in the world.  Other programs handle   games, such as the  -playing program  .    developed increasingly generalistic   models, such as with  , which could be trained to play chess, Go, or   games.  In 2019, DeepMind's AlphaStar achieved grandmaster level in  , a particularly challenging real-time strategy game that involves incomplete knowledge of what happens on the map.  In 2021, an AI agent competed in a PlayStation Gran Turismo competition, winning against four of the world's best Gran Turismo drivers using deep reinforcement learning. 
 Various countries are deploying AI military applications.  The main applications enhance  , communications, sensors, integration and interoperability.  Research is targeting intelligence collection and analysis, logistics, cyber operations, information operations, and semiautonomous and  .  AI technologies enable coordination of sensors and effectors, threat detection and identification, marking of enemy positions,  , coordination and deconfliction of distributed   between networked combat vehicles involving manned and unmanned teams.  AI was incorporated into military operations in Iraq and Syria. 
 In November 2023, US Vice President   disclosed a declaration signed by 31 nations to set guardrails for the military use of AI. The commitments include using legal reviews to ensure the compliance of military AI with international laws, and being cautious and transparent in the development of this technology. 
 In the early 2020s,   gained widespread prominence. In March 2023, 58% of U.S. adults had heard about   and 14% had tried it.  The increasing realism and ease-of-use of AI-based   generators such as  ,  , and   sparked a trend of   AI-generated photos. Widespread attention was gained by a fake photo of   wearing a white puffer coat, the fictional arrest of  , and a hoax of an attack on the  , as well as the usage in professional creative arts. 
 There are also thousands of successful AI applications used to solve specific problems for specific industries or institutions. In a 2017 survey, one in five companies reported they had incorporated "AI" in some offerings or processes.  A few examples are  , medical diagnosis, military logistics, applications that predict the result of judicial decisions,  , or supply chain management.
 In agriculture, AI has helped farmers identify areas that need irrigation, fertilization, pesticide treatments or increasing yield. Agronomists use AI to conduct research and development. AI has been used to predict the ripening time for crops such as tomatoes, monitor soil moisture, operate agricultural robots, conduct predictive analytics, classify livestock pig call emotions, automate greenhouses, detect diseases and pests, and save water.
 Artificial intelligence is used in astronomy to analyze increasing amounts of available data and applications, mainly for "classification, regression, clustering, forecasting, generation, discovery, and the development of new scientific insights" for example for discovering exoplanets, forecasting solar activity, and distinguishing between signals and instrumental effects in gravitational wave astronomy. It could also be used for activities in space such as space exploration, including analysis of data from space missions, real-time science decisions of spacecraft, space debris avoidance, and more autonomous operation.
 AI has potential benefits and potential risks. AI may be able to advance science and find solutions for serious problems:   of   hopes to "solve intelligence, and then use that to solve everything else".  However, as the use of AI has become widespread, several unintended consequences and risks have been identified.  In-production systems can sometimes not factor ethics and bias into their AI training processes, especially when the AI algorithms are inherently unexplainable in deep learning. 
 Machine-learning algorithms require large amounts of data. The techniques used to acquire this data have raised concerns about  ,   and  .
 Technology companies collect a wide range of data from their users, including online activity, geolocation data, video and audio. 
For example, in order to build   algorithms,   has recorded millions of private conversations and allowed   to listen to and transcribe some of them.  Opinions about this widespread   range from those who see it as a   to those for whom it is clearly   and a violation of the  . 
 AI developers argue that this is the only way to deliver valuable applications. and have developed several techniques that attempt to preserve privacy while still obtaining the data, such as  ,   and  .  Since 2016, some privacy experts, such as  , have begun to view privacy in terms of  .   wrote that experts have pivoted "from the question of 'what they know' to the question of 'what they're doing with it'." 
 Generative AI is often trained on unlicensed copyrighted works, including in domains such as images or computer code; the output is then used under the rationale of " ". Website owners who do not wish to have their copyrighted content AI-indexed or 'scraped' can add code to their site if they do not want their website to be indexed by a search engine, which is currently available through certain services such as  . Experts disagree about how well and under what circumstances this rationale will hold up in courts of law; relevant factors may include "the purpose and character of the use of the copyrighted work" and "the effect upon the potential market for the copyrighted work".  In 2023, leading authors (including   and  ) sued AI companies for using their work to train generative AI. 
 ,   and others use   to guide users to more content. These AI programs were given the goal of   user engagement (that is, the only goal was to keep people watching). The AI learned that users tended to choose  ,  , and extreme   content, and, to keep them watching, the AI recommended more of it. Users also tended to watch more content on the same subject, so the AI led people into   where they received multiple versions of the same misinformation.  This convinced many users that the misinformation was true, and ultimately undermined trust in institutions, the media and the government.  The AI program had correctly learned to maximize its goal, but the result was harmful to society. After the U.S. election in 2016, major technology companies took steps to mitigate the problem.
 In 2022,   began to create images, audio, video and text that are indistinguishable from real photographs, recordings, films or human writing. It is possible for bad actors to use this technology to create massive amounts of misinformation or propaganda.  AI pioneer   expressed concern about AI enabling "authoritarian leaders to manipulate their electorates" on a large scale, among other risks. 
 Machine learning applications will be biased if they learn from biased data.  The developers may not be aware that the bias exists. 
Bias can be introduced by the way   is selected and by the way a model is deployed.  If a biased algorithm is used to make decisions that can seriously   people (as it can in  ,  ,  ,   or  ) then the algorithm may cause  . 
  in machine learning is the study of how to prevent the harm caused by algorithmic bias. It has become serious area of academic study within AI. Researchers have discovered it is not always possible to define "fairness" in a way that satisfies all stakeholders. 
 On June 28, 2015,  's new image labeling feature mistakenly identified Jacky Alcine and a friend as "gorillas" because they were black. The system was trained on a dataset that contained very few images of black people,  a problem called "sample size disparity".  Google "fixed" this problem by preventing the system from labelling   as a "gorilla". Eight years later, in 2023, Google Photos still could not identify a gorilla, and neither could similar products from Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Amazon. 
  is a commercial program widely used by   to assess the likelihood of a   becoming a  .
In 2016,   at   discovered that COMPAS exhibited racial bias, despite the fact that the program was not told the races of the defendants. Although the error rate for both whites and blacks was calibrated equal at exactly 61%, the errors for each race were different—the system consistently overestimated the chance that a black person would re-offend and would underestimate the chance that a white person would not re-offend.  In 2017, several researchers  showed that it was mathematically impossible for COMPAS to accommodate all possible measures of fairness when the base rates of re-offense were different for whites and blacks in the data. 
 A program can make biased decisions even if the data does not explicitly mention a problematic feature (such as "race" or "gender"). The feature will correlate with other features (like "address", "shopping history" or "first name"), and the program will make the same decisions based on these features as it would on "race" or "gender". 
Moritz Hardt said "the most robust fact in this research area is that fairness through blindness doesn't work." 
 Criticism of COMPAS highlighted that machine learning models are designed to make "predictions" that are only valid if we assume that the future will resemble the past. If they are trained on data that includes the results of racist decisions in the past, machine learning models must predict that racist decisions will be made in the future. If an application then uses these predictions as  , some of these "recommendations" will likely be racist.  Thus, machine learning is not well suited to help make decisions in areas where there is hope that the future will be   than the past. It is necessarily descriptive and not proscriptive. 
 Bias and unfairness may go undetected because the developers are overwhelmingly white and male: among AI engineers, about 4% are black and 20% are women. 
 At its 2022   (ACM FAccT 2022), the  , in Seoul, South Korea, presented and published findings that recommend that until AI and robotics systems are demonstrated to be free of bias mistakes, they are unsafe, and the use of self-learning neural networks trained on vast, unregulated sources of flawed internet data should be curtailed. 
 Many AI systems are so complex that their designers cannot explain how they reach their decisions.  Particularly with  , in which there are a large amount of non-  relationships between inputs and outputs. But some popular explainability techniques exist. 
 It is impossible to be certain that a program is operating correctly if no one knows how exactly it works. There have been many cases where a machine learning program passed rigorous tests, but nevertheless learned something different than what the programmers intended. For example, a system that could identify skin diseases better than medical professionals was found to actually have a strong tendency to classify images with a   as "cancerous", because pictures of malignancies typically include a ruler to show the scale.  Another machine learning system designed to help effectively allocate medical resources was found to classify patients with asthma as being at "low risk" of dying from pneumonia. Having asthma is actually a severe risk factor, but since the patients having asthma would usually get much more medical care, they were relatively unlikely to die according to the training data. The correlation between asthma and low risk of dying from pneumonia was real, but misleading. 
 People who have been harmed by an algorithm's decision have a right to an explanation.  Doctors, for example, are expected to clearly and completely explain to their colleagues the reasoning behind any decision they make. Early drafts of the European Union's   in 2016 included an explicit statement that this right exists.  Industry experts noted that this is an unsolved problem with no solution in sight. Regulators argued that nevertheless the harm is real: if the problem has no solution, the tools should not be used. 
  established the   ("Explainable Artificial Intelligence") program in 2014 to try and solve these problems.  
 There are several possible solutions to the transparency problem. SHAP tried to solve the transparency problems by visualising the contribution of each feature to the output.  LIME can locally approximate a model with a simpler, interpretable model.    provides a large number of outputs in addition to the target classification. These other outputs can help developers deduce what the network has learned.   ,   and other   methods can allow developers to see what different layers of a deep network have learned and produce output that can suggest what the network is learning. 
 Artificial intelligence provides a number of tools that are useful to  , such as  ,  ,   or  .
 A lethal autonomous weapon is a machine that locates, selects and engages human targets without human supervision.  Widely available AI tools can be used by bad actors to develop inexpensive autonomous weapons and, if produced at scale, they are potentially  .  Even when used in conventional warfare, it is unlikely that they will be unable to reliably choose targets and could potentially  .  In 2014, 30 nations (including China) supported a ban on autonomous weapons under the  '  , however the   and others disagreed.  By 2015, over fifty countries were reported to be researching battlefield robots. 
 AI tools make it easier for   to efficiently control their citizens in several ways.   and   allow widespread  .  , operating this data, can   potential enemies of the state and prevent them from hiding.   can precisely target   and   for maximum effect.   and   aid in producing misinformation. Advanced AI can make authoritarian   more competitive than liberal and decentralized systems such as  . It lowers the cost and difficulty of   and  .  All these technologies have been available since 2020 or earlier—AI   are already being used for   in China. 
 There many other ways that AI is expected to help bad actors, some of which can not be foreseen. For example, machine-learning AI is able to design tens of thousands of toxic molecules in a matter of hours. 
 Training AI systems requires an enormous amount of computing power. Usually only   companies have the financial resources to make such investments. Smaller startups such as   and   end up buying access to   from   and   respectively. 
 Economists have frequently highlighted the risks of redundancies from AI, and speculated about unemployment if there is no adequate social policy for full employment. 
 In the past, technology has tended to increase rather than reduce total employment, but economists acknowledge that "we're in uncharted territory" with AI.  A survey of economists showed disagreement about whether the increasing use of robots and AI will cause a substantial increase in long-term  , but they generally agree that it could be a net benefit if   gains are  .  Risk estimates vary; for example, in the 2010s, Michael Osborne and   estimated 47% of U.S. jobs are at "high risk" of potential automation, while an OECD report classified only 9% of U.S. jobs as "high risk".  The methodology of speculating about future employment levels has been criticised as lacking evidential foundation, and for implying that technology, rather than social policy, creates unemployment, as opposed to redundancies.  In April 2023, it was reported that 70% of the jobs for Chinese video game illustrators had been eliminated by generative artificial intelligence. 
 Unlike previous waves of automation, many middle-class jobs may be eliminated by artificial intelligence;   stated in 2015 that "the worry that AI could do to white-collar jobs what steam power did to blue-collar ones during the Industrial Revolution" is "worth taking seriously".  Jobs at extreme risk range from   to fast food cooks, while job demand is likely to increase for care-related professions ranging from personal healthcare to the clergy. 
 From the early days of the development of artificial intelligence, there have been arguments, for example, those put forward by  , about whether tasks that can be done by computers actually should be done by them, given the difference between computers and humans, and between quantitative calculation and qualitative, value-based judgement. 
 It has been argued AI will become so powerful that humanity may irreversibly lose control of it. This could, as physicist   stated, " ".  This scenario has been common in science fiction, when a computer or robot suddenly develops a human-like "self-awareness" (or "sentience" or "consciousness") and becomes a malevolent character.  These sci-fi scenarios are misleading in several ways.
 First, AI does not require human-like " " to be an existential risk. Modern AI programs are given specific goals and use learning and intelligence to achieve them. Philosopher   argued that if one gives   goal to a sufficiently powerful AI, it may choose to destroy humanity to achieve it (he used the example of a  ).    gives the example of household robot that tries to find a way to kill its owner to prevent it from being unplugged, reasoning that "you can't fetch the coffee if you're dead."  In order to be safe for humanity, a   would have to be genuinely   with humanity's morality and values so that it is "fundamentally on our side". 
 Second,   argues that AI does not require a robot body or physical control to pose an existential risk. The essential parts of civilization are not physical. Things like  ,  ,  ,   and the   are made of  ; they exist because there are stories that billions of people believe. The current prevalence of   suggests that an AI could use language to convince people to believe anything, even to take actions that are destructive. 
 The opinions amongst experts and industry insiders are mixed, with sizable fractions both concerned and unconcerned by risk from eventual superintelligent AI.  Personalities such as  ,  , and   have expressed concern about existential risk from AI. 
AI pioneers including  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and   have expressed concerns about the risks of AI. In 2023, many leading AI experts issued the joint statement that "Mitigating the risk of extinction from AI should be a global priority alongside other societal-scale risks such as pandemics and nuclear war". 
 Other researchers, however, spoke in favor of a less dystopian view. AI pioneer   did not sign the joint statement, emphasising that in 95% of all cases, AI research is about making "human lives longer and healthier and easier."  While the tools that are now being used to improve lives can also be used by bad actors, "they can also be used against the bad actors."    also argued that "it's a mistake to fall for the doomsday hype on AI—and that regulators who do will only benefit vested interests."    "scoffs at his peers' dystopian scenarios of supercharged misinformation and even, eventually, human extinction."  In the early 2010s, experts argued that the risks are too distant in the future to warrant research or that humans will be valuable from the perspective of a superintelligent machine.  However, after 2016, the study of current and future risks and possible solutions became a serious area of research. 
 Friendly AI are machines that have been designed from the beginning to minimize risks and to make choices that benefit humans.  , who coined the term, argues that developing friendly AI should be a higher research priority: it may require a large investment and it must be completed before AI becomes an existential risk. 
 Machines with intelligence have the potential to use their intelligence to make ethical decisions. The field of machine ethics provides machines with ethical principles and procedures for resolving ethical dilemmas. 
The field of machine ethics is also called computational morality, 
and was founded at an   symposium in 2005. 
 Other approaches include  's "artificial moral agents"  and  's   for developing provably beneficial machines. 
 Active organizations in the AI open-source community include  ,   ,    and  .  Various AI models, such as  ,   or  , have been made open-weight,  meaning that their architecture and trained parameters (the "weights") are publicly available. Open-weight models can be freely  , which allows companies to specialize them with their own data and for their own use-case.  Open-weight models are useful for research and innovation, but can also be misused. Since they can be fine-tuned, any built-in security measure, such as objecting to harmful requests, can be trained away until it becomes ineffective. Some researchers warn that future AI models may develop dangerous capabilities (such as the potential to drastically facilitate  ), and that once released on the Internet, they can't be deleted everywhere if needed. They recommend pre-release audits and cost-benefit analyses. 
 Artificial Intelligence projects can have their ethical permissibility tested while designing, developing, and implementing an AI system. An AI framework such as the Care and Act Framework containing the SUM values—developed by the   tests projects in four main areas: 
 Other developments in ethical frameworks include those decided upon during the  , the Montreal Declaration for Responsible AI, and the IEEE's Ethics of Autonomous Systems initiative, among others;  however, these principles do not go without their criticisms, especially regards to the people chosen contributes to these frameworks. 
 Promotion of the wellbeing of the people and communities that these technologies affect requires consideration of the social and ethical implications at all stages of AI system design, development and implementation, and collaboration between job roles such as data scientists, product managers, data engineers, domain experts, and delivery managers. 
 The regulation of artificial intelligence is the development of public sector policies and laws for promoting and regulating artificial intelligence (AI); it is therefore related to the broader regulation of algorithms.  The regulatory and policy landscape for AI is an emerging issue in jurisdictions globally.  According to AI Index at  , the annual number of AI-related laws passed in the 127 survey countries jumped from one passed in 2016 to 37 passed in 2022 alone.  Between 2016 and 2020, more than 30 countries adopted dedicated strategies for AI.  Most EU member states had released national AI strategies, as had Canada, China, India, Japan, Mauritius, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, U.S., and Vietnam. Others were in the process of elaborating their own AI strategy, including Bangladesh, Malaysia and Tunisia.  The   was launched in June 2020, stating a need for AI to be developed in accordance with human rights and democratic values, to ensure public confidence and trust in the technology.   ,  , and   published a joint statement in November 2021 calling for a government commission to regulate AI.  In 2023, OpenAI leaders published recommendations for the governance of superintelligence, which they believe may happen in less than 10 years.  In 2023, the United Nations also launched an advisory body to provide recommendations on AI governance; the body comprises technology company executives, governments officials and academics. 
 In a 2022   survey, attitudes towards AI varied greatly by country; 78% of Chinese citizens, but only 35% of Americans, agreed that "products and services using AI have more benefits than drawbacks".  A 2023  /Ipsos poll found that 61% of Americans agree, and 22% disagree, that AI poses risks to humanity.  In a 2023   poll, 35% of Americans thought it "very important", and an additional 41% thought it "somewhat important", for the federal government to regulate AI, versus 13% responding "not very important" and 8% responding "not at all important". 
 In November 2023, the first global   was held in   in the UK to discuss the near and far term risks of AI and the possibility of mandatory and voluntary regulatory frameworks.  28 countries including the United States, China, and the European Union issued a declaration at the start of the summit, calling for international co-operation to manage the challenges and risks of artificial intelligence. 
 The study of mechanical or "formal" reasoning began with philosophers and mathematicians in antiquity. The study of logic led directly to  's  , which suggested that a machine, by shuffling symbols as simple as "0" and "1", could simulate any conceivable form of mathematical reasoning.  This, along with concurrent discoveries in  ,   and  , led researchers to consider the possibility of building an "electronic brain".  
They developed several areas of research that would become part of AI, 
such as   and   design for "artificial neurons" in 1943,  and Turing's influential 1950 paper ' ', which introduced the   and showed that "machine intelligence" was plausible. 
 The field of AI research was founded at   at   in 1956.  The attendees became the leaders of AI research in the 1960s.  They and their students produced programs that the press described as "astonishing":  computers were learning   strategies, solving word problems in algebra, proving   and speaking English.  Artificial intelligence laboratories were set up at a number of British and U.S. Universities in the latter 1950s and early 1960s. 
 Researchers in the 1960s and the 1970s were convinced that their methods would eventually succeed in creating a machine with   and considered this the goal of their field.    predicted, "machines will be capable, within twenty years, of doing any work a man can do".    agreed, writing, "within a generation ... the problem of creating 'artificial intelligence' will substantially be solved".  They had, however, underestimated the difficulty of the problem.  In 1974, both the U.S. and British governments cut off exploratory research in response to the   of   and ongoing pressure from the U.S. Congress to  .   's and  's book   was understood as proving that   would never be useful for solving real-world tasks, thus discrediting the approach altogether.  The " ", a period when obtaining funding for AI projects was difficult, followed. 
 In the early 1980s, AI research was revived by the commercial success of  ,  a form of AI program that simulated the knowledge and analytical skills of human experts. By 1985, the market for AI had reached over a billion dollars. At the same time, Japan's   project inspired the U.S. and British governments to restore funding for  .  However, beginning with the collapse of the   market in 1987, AI once again fell into disrepute, and a second, longer-lasting winter began. 
 Up to this point, most of AI's funding had gone to projects which used high level   to represent   like plans, goals, beliefs and known facts. In the 1980s, some researchers began to doubt that this approach would be able to imitate all the processes of human cognition, especially  ,  ,   and  ,  and began to look into "sub-symbolic" approaches.    rejected "representation" in general and focussed directly on engineering machines that move and survive.   ,   and others developed methods that handled incomplete and uncertain information by making reasonable guesses rather than precise logic.  But the most important development was the revival of " ", including neural network research, by   and others.  In 1990,   successfully showed that   can recognize handwritten digits, the first of many successful applications of neural networks. 
 AI gradually restored its reputation in the late 1990s and early 21st century by exploiting formal mathematical methods and by finding specific solutions to specific problems. This " " and "formal" focus allowed researchers to produce verifiable results and collaborate with other fields (such as  ,   and  ).  By 2000, solutions developed by AI researchers were being widely used, although in the 1990s they were rarely described as "artificial intelligence". 
However, several academic researchers became concerned that AI was no longer pursuing its original goal of creating versatile, fully intelligent machines. Beginning around 2002, they founded the subfield of   (or "AGI"), which had several well-funded institutions by the 2010s. 
  began to dominate industry benchmarks in 2012 and was adopted throughout the field. 
For many specific tasks, other methods were abandoned. 
Deep learning's success was based on both hardware improvements ( ,   ,  ) and access to   (including curated datasets,  such as  ). Deep learning's success led to an enormous increase in interest and funding in AI.  The amount of machine learning research (measured by total publications) increased by 50% in the years 2015–2019. 
 In 2016, issues of   and the misuse of technology were catapulted into center stage at machine learning conferences, publications vastly increased, funding became available, and many researchers re-focussed their careers on these issues. The   became a serious field of academic study. 
 In the late teens and early 2020s,   companies began to deliver programs that created enormous interest. In 2015,  , developed by  , beat the world champion  . The program was taught only the rules of the game and developed strategy by itself.   is a   that was released in 2020 by   and is capable of generating high-quality human-like text.  These programs, and others, inspired an aggressive  , where large companies began investing billions in AI research. According to 'AI Impacts', about $50 billion annually was invested in "AI" around 2022 in the U.S. alone and about 20% of the new U.S. Computer Science PhD graduates have specialized in "AI". 
About 800,000 "AI"-related U.S. job openings existed in 2022. 
  wrote in 1950 "I propose to consider the question 'can machines think'?"  He advised changing the question from whether a machine "thinks", to "whether or not it is possible for machinery to show intelligent behaviour".  He devised the Turing test, which measures the ability of a machine to simulate human conversation.  Since we can only observe the behavior of the machine, it does not matter if it is "actually" thinking or literally has a "mind". Turing notes that   but "it is usual to have a polite convention that everyone thinks" 
  and   agree with Turing that intelligence must be defined in terms of external behavior, not internal structure.  However, they are critical that the test requires the machine to imitate humans. "  texts," they wrote, "do not define the goal of their field as making 'machines that fly so exactly like   that they can fool other pigeons. "  AI founder   agreed, writing that "Artificial intelligence is not, by definition, simulation of human intelligence". 
 McCarthy defines intelligence as "the computational part of the ability to achieve goals in the world."  Another AI founder,   similarly describes it as "the ability to solve hard problems".  The leading AI textbook defines it as the study of agents that perceive their environment and take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.  These definitions view intelligence in terms of well-defined problems with well-defined solutions, where both the difficulty of the problem and the performance of the program are direct measures of the "intelligence" of the machine—and no other philosophical discussion is required, or may not even be possible.
 Another definition has been adopted by Google,  a major practitioner in the field of AI. This definition stipulates the ability of systems to synthesize information as the manifestation of intelligence, similar to the way it is defined in biological intelligence.
 No established unifying theory or   has guided AI research for most of its history.  The unprecedented success of statistical machine learning in the 2010s eclipsed all other approaches (so much so that some sources, especially in the business world, use the term "artificial intelligence" to mean "machine learning with neural networks"). This approach is mostly  ,   and  . Critics argue that these questions may have to be revisited by future generations of AI researchers.
  (or " ")  simulated the high-level conscious reasoning that people use when they solve puzzles, express legal reasoning and do mathematics. They were highly successful at "intelligent" tasks such as algebra or IQ tests. In the 1960s, Newell and Simon proposed the  : "A physical symbol system has the necessary and sufficient means of general intelligent action." 
 However, the symbolic approach failed on many tasks that humans solve easily, such as learning, recognizing an object or commonsense reasoning.   is the discovery that high-level "intelligent" tasks were easy for AI, but low level "instinctive" tasks were extremely difficult.  Philosopher   had   since the 1960s that human expertise depends on unconscious instinct rather than conscious symbol manipulation, and on having a "feel" for the situation, rather than explicit symbolic knowledge.  Although his arguments had been ridiculed and ignored when they were first presented, eventually, AI research came to agree with him. 
 The issue is not resolved:   reasoning can make many of the same inscrutable mistakes that human intuition does, such as  . Critics such as   argue continuing research into symbolic AI will still be necessary to attain general intelligence,  in part because sub-symbolic AI is a move away from  : it can be difficult or impossible to understand why a modern statistical AI program made a particular decision. The emerging field of   attempts to bridge the two approaches.
 "Neats" hope that intelligent behavior is described using simple, elegant principles (such as  ,  , or  ). "Scruffies" expect that it necessarily requires solving a large number of unrelated problems. Neats defend their programs with theoretical rigor, scruffies rely mainly on incremental testing to see if they work. This issue was actively discussed in the 1970s and 1980s,  but eventually was seen as irrelevant. Modern AI has elements of both.
 Finding a provably correct or optimal solution is   for many important problems.  Soft computing is a set of techniques, including  ,   and neural networks, that are tolerant of imprecision, uncertainty, partial truth and approximation. Soft computing was introduced in the late 1980s and most successful AI programs in the 21st century are examples of soft computing with neural networks.
 AI researchers are divided as to whether to pursue the goals of artificial general intelligence and   directly or to solve as many specific problems as possible (narrow AI) in hopes these solutions will lead indirectly to the field's long-term goals.  General intelligence is difficult to define and difficult to measure, and modern AI has had more verifiable successes by focusing on specific problems with specific solutions. The experimental sub-field of artificial general intelligence studies this area exclusively.
 The   does not know whether a machine can have a  ,   and  , in the same sense that human beings do. This issue considers the internal experiences of the machine, rather than its external behavior. Mainstream AI research considers this issue irrelevant because it does not affect the goals of the field: to build machines that can solve problems using intelligence.   and   add that "[t]he additional project of making a machine conscious in exactly the way humans are is not one that we are equipped to take on."  However, the question has become central to the philosophy of mind. It is also typically the central question at issue in  .
  identified two problems in understanding the mind, which he named the "hard" and "easy" problems of consciousness.  The easy problem is understanding how the brain processes signals, makes plans and controls behavior. The hard problem is explaining how this   or why it should feel like anything at all, assuming we are right in thinking that it truly does feel like something (Dennett's consciousness illusionism says this is an illusion). Human   is easy to explain, however, human   is difficult to explain. For example, it is easy to imagine a color-blind person who has learned to identify which objects in their field of view are red, but it is not clear what would be required for the person to  . 
 Computationalism is the position in the   that the human mind is an information processing system and that thinking is a form of computing. Computationalism argues that the relationship between mind and body is similar or identical to the relationship between software and hardware and thus may be a solution to the  . This philosophical position was inspired by the work of AI researchers and cognitive scientists in the 1960s and was originally proposed by philosophers   and  . 
 Philosopher   characterized this position as " ": "The appropriately programmed computer with the right inputs and outputs would thereby have a mind in exactly the same sense human beings have minds."  Searle counters this assertion with his Chinese room argument, which attempts to show that, even if a machine perfectly simulates human behavior, there is still no reason to suppose it also has a mind. 
 It is difficult or impossible to reliably evaluate whether an advanced   (has the ability to feel), and if so, to what degree.  But if there is a significant chance that a given machine can feel and suffer, then it may be entitled to certain rights or welfare protection measures, similarly to animals.    (a set of capacities related to high intelligence, such as discernment or  ) may provide another moral basis for AI rights.    are also sometimes proposed as a practical way to integrate autonomous agents into society. 
 In 2017, the European Union considered granting "electronic personhood" to some of the most capable AI systems. Similarly to the legal status of companies, it would have conferred rights but also responsibilities.  Critics argued in 2018 that granting rights to AI systems would downplay the importance of  , and that legislation should focus on user needs rather than speculative futuristic scenarios. They also noted that robots lacked the autonomy to take part to society on their own. 
 Progress in AI increased interest in the topic. Proponents of AI welfare and rights often argue that AI sentience, if it emerges, would be particularly easy to deny. They warn that this may be a   analogous to   or  , which could lead to   if sentient AI is created and carelessly exploited. 
 A   is a hypothetical agent that would possess intelligence far surpassing that of the brightest and most gifted human mind. 
 If research into   produced sufficiently intelligent software, it might be able to  . The improved software would be even better at improving itself, leading to what   called an " " and   called a " ". 
 However, technologies cannot improve exponentially indefinitely, and typically follow an  , slowing when they reach the physical limits of what the technology can do. 
 Robot designer  , cyberneticist  , and inventor   have predicted that humans and machines will merge in the future into   that are more capable and powerful than either. This idea, called transhumanism, has roots in   and  . 
  argues that "artificial intelligence is the next stage in evolution", an idea first proposed by  's " " as far back as 1863, and expanded upon by   in his book of the same name in 1998. 
 Thought-capable artificial beings have appeared as storytelling devices since antiquity,  and have been a persistent theme in  . 
 A common   in these works began with  's  , where a human creation becomes a threat to its masters. This includes such works as   and     (both 1968), with  , the murderous computer in charge of the   spaceship, as well as   (1984) and   (1999). In contrast, the rare loyal robots such as Gort from   (1951) and Bishop from   (1986) are less prominent in popular culture. 
  introduced the   in many books and stories, most notably the "Multivac" series about a super-intelligent computer of the same name. Asimov's laws are often brought up during lay discussions of machine ethics;  while almost all artificial intelligence researchers are familiar with Asimov's laws through popular culture, they generally consider the laws useless for many reasons, one of which is their ambiguity. 
 Several works use AI to force us to confront the fundamental question of what makes us human, showing us artificial beings that have  , and thus to suffer. This appears in  's  , the films   and  , as well as the novel  , by  . Dick considers the idea that our understanding of human subjectivity is altered by technology created with artificial intelligence. 
 The two most widely used textbooks in 2023. (See the  ).
 These were the four of the most widely used AI textbooks in 2008:
 Later editions.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_intelligence

Content: 
  ( ), in its broadest sense, is   exhibited by  , particularly  . It is a   in   that develops and studies methods and software which enable machines to   and uses   and intelligence to take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.  Such machines may be called AIs.
  is widely used  ,  , and science. Some high-profile applications include advanced   (e.g.,  );   (used by  ,  , and  ); interacting   (e.g.,  ,  , and  );   (e.g.,  );   and   tools (e.g.,   and  ); and   play and analysis in   (e.g.,   and  ).  However, many AI applications are not perceived as AI: "A lot of cutting edge AI has filtered into general applications, often without being called AI because once something becomes useful enough and common enough it's  ." 
  was the first person to conduct substantial research in the field that he called machine intelligence.  Artificial intelligence was founded as an academic discipline in 1956.  The field went through multiple cycles of optimism,  followed by periods of disappointment and loss of funding, known as  .  Funding and interest vastly increased after 2012 when   surpassed all previous AI techniques,  and after 2017 with the  .  This led to the   of the early 2020s, with companies, universities, and laboratories overwhelmingly based in the United States pioneering significant  . 
 The growing use of artificial intelligence in the 21st century is influencing   towards increased automation,  , and the   into various economic sectors and areas of life,  ,  , government, industry, and  . This raises questions about  ,  , and  , prompting discussions about   to ensure the  . 
 The various sub-fields of AI research are centered around particular goals and the use of particular tools. The traditional goals of AI research include  ,  ,  ,  ,  , perception, and support for  .   —the ability to complete any task performable by a human on an at least equal level—is among the field's long-term goals. 
 To reach these goals, AI researchers have adapted and integrated a wide range of techniques, including   and  ,  ,  , and methods based on  ,  , and  .  AI also draws upon  ,  ,  ,  , and other fields. 
 The general problem of simulating (or creating) intelligence has been broken into sub-problems. These consist of particular traits or capabilities that researchers expect an intelligent system to display. The traits described below have received the most attention and cover the scope of AI research. 
 Early researchers developed algorithms that imitated step-by-step reasoning that humans use when they solve puzzles or make logical  .  By the late 1980s and 1990s, methods were developed for dealing with   or incomplete information, employing concepts from   and  . 
 Many of these algorithms are insufficient for solving large reasoning problems because they experience a "combinatorial explosion": they became exponentially slower as the problems grew larger.  Even humans rarely use the step-by-step deduction that early AI research could model. They solve most of their problems using fast, intuitive judgments.  Accurate and efficient reasoning is an unsolved problem.
  and   allow AI programs to answer questions intelligently and make deductions about real-world facts. Formal knowledge representations are used in content-based indexing and retrieval,  scene interpretation,  clinical decision support,  knowledge discovery (mining "interesting" and actionable inferences from large  ),  and other areas. 
 A   is a body of knowledge represented in a form that can be used by a program. An   is the set of objects, relations, concepts, and properties used by a particular domain of knowledge.  Knowledge bases need to represent things such as: objects, properties, categories and relations between objects;  situations, events, states and time;  causes and effects;  knowledge about knowledge (what we know about what other people know);    (things that humans assume are true until they are told differently and will remain true even when other facts are changing);  and many other aspects and domains of knowledge.
 Among the most difficult problems in knowledge representation are: the breadth of commonsense knowledge (the set of atomic facts that the average person knows is enormous);  and the sub-symbolic form of most commonsense knowledge (much of what people know is not represented as "facts" or "statements" that they could express verbally).  There is also the difficulty of  , the problem of obtaining knowledge for AI applications. 
 An "agent" is anything that perceives and takes actions in the world. A   has goals or preferences and takes actions to make them happen.  In  , the agent has a specific goal.  In  , the agent has preferences—there are some situations it would prefer to be in, and some situations it is trying to avoid. The decision making agent assigns a number to each situation (called the " ") that measures how much the agent prefers it. For each possible action, it can calculate the " ": the   of all possible outcomes of the action, weighted by the probability that the outcome will occur. It can then choose the action with the maximum expected utility. 
 In  , the agent knows exactly what the effect of any action will be.  In most real-world problems, however, the agent may not be certain about the situation they are in (it is "unknown" or "unobservable") and it may not know for certain what will happen after each possible action (it is not "deterministic"). It must choose an action by making a probabilistic guess and then reassess the situation to see if the action worked. 
 In some problems, the agent's preferences may be uncertain, especially if there are other agents or humans involved. These can be learned (e.g., with  ) or the agent can seek information to improve its preferences.    can be used to weigh the value of exploratory or experimental actions.  The space of possible future actions and situations is typically   large, so the agents must take actions and evaluate situations while being uncertain what the outcome will be.
 A   has a   that describes the probability that a particular action will change the state in a particular way, and a   that supplies the utility of each state and the cost of each action. A   associates a decision with each possible state. The policy could be calculated (e.g., by  ), be  , or it can be learned. 
  describes rational behavior of multiple interacting agents, and is used in AI programs that make decisions that involve other agents. 
  is the study of programs that can improve their performance on a given task automatically.  It has been a part of AI from the beginning. 
 There are several kinds of machine learning.   analyzes a stream of data and finds patterns and makes predictions without any other guidance.    requires a human to label the input data first, and comes in two main varieties:   (where the program must learn to predict what category the input belongs in) and   (where the program must deduce a numeric function based on numeric input). 
 In   the agent is rewarded for good responses and punished for bad ones. The agent learns to choose responses that are classified as "good".    is when the knowledge gained from one problem is applied to a new problem.    is a type of machine learning that runs inputs through biologically inspired   for all of these types of learning. 
  can assess learners by  , by   (how much data is required), or by other notions of  . 
  (NLP)  allows programs to read, write and communicate in human languages such as  . Specific problems include  ,  ,  ,  ,   and  . 
 Early work, based on  's   and  , had difficulty with   unless restricted to small domains called " " (due to the common sense knowledge problem ).   believed that it was meaning and not grammar that was the key to understanding languages, and that   and not dictionaries should be the basis of computational language structure.
 Modern deep learning techniques for NLP include   (representing words, typically as   encoding their meaning),    (a deep learning architecture using an   mechanism),  and others.  In 2019,   (or "GPT") language models began to generate coherent text,  and by 2023 these models were able to get human-level scores on the  ,   test,   test, and many other real-world applications. 
  is the ability to use input from sensors (such as cameras, microphones, wireless signals, active  , sonar, radar, and  ) to deduce aspects of the world.   is the ability to analyze visual input. 
 The field includes  ,   ,   ,  ,  and  . 
  is an interdisciplinary umbrella that comprises systems that recognize, interpret, process or simulate human  .  For example, some   are programmed to speak conversationally or even to banter humorously; it makes them appear more sensitive to the emotional dynamics of human interaction, or to otherwise facilitate  .
 However, this tends to give naïve users an unrealistic conception of the intelligence of existing computer agents.  Moderate successes related to affective computing include textual   and, more recently,  , wherein AI classifies the affects displayed by a videotaped subject. 
 A machine with   should be able to solve a wide variety of problems with breadth and versatility similar to human intelligence. 
 AI research uses a wide variety of techniques to accomplish the goals above. 
 AI can solve many problems by intelligently searching through many possible solutions.  There are two very different kinds of search used in AI:   and  .
  searches through a tree of possible states to try to find a goal state.  For example,   algorithms search through trees of goals and subgoals, attempting to find a path to a target goal, a process called  . 
  are rarely sufficient for most real-world problems: the   (the number of places to search) quickly grows to  . The result is a search that is   or never completes.  " " or "rules of thumb" can help to prioritize choices that are more likely to reach a goal. 
  is used for   programs, such as chess or Go. It searches through a   of possible moves and counter-moves, looking for a winning position. 
  uses   to find a solution to a problem. It begins with some form of guess and refines it incrementally. 
  is a type of local search that optimizes a set of numerical parameters by incrementally adjusting them to minimize a  . Variants of gradient descent are commonly used to train neural networks. 
 Another type of local search is  , which aims to iteratively improve a set of candidate solutions by "mutating" and "recombining" them,   only the fittest to survive each generation. 
 Distributed search processes can coordinate via   algorithms. Two popular swarm algorithms used in search are   (inspired by bird  ) and   (inspired by  ). 
 Formal   is used for   and  . 
Formal logic comes in two main forms:   (which operates on statements that are true or false and uses   such as "and", "or", "not" and "implies")  and   (which also operates on objects, predicates and relations and uses   such as "    is a  " and "There are    s that are  s"). 
  in logic is the process of   a new statement ( ) from other statements that are given and assumed to be true (the  ).  Proofs can be structured as proof  , in which nodes are labelled by sentences, and children nodes are connected to  parent nodes by  .
 Given a problem and a set of premises, problem-solving reduces to searching for a proof tree whose root node is labelled by a solution of the problem and whose leaf nodes are labelled by premises or  . In the case of  , problem-solving search can be performed by reasoning   from the premises or   from the problem.  In the more general case of the clausal form of  ,   is a single, axiom-free rule of inference, in which a problem is solved by proving a contradiction from premises that include the negation of the problem to be solved. 
 Inference in both Horn clause logic and first-order logic is  , and therefore  . However, backward reasoning with Horn clauses, which underpins computation in the   language  , is  . Moreover, its efficiency is competitive with computation in other   languages. 
  assigns a "degree of truth" between 0 and 1. It can therefore handle propositions that are vague and partially true. 
 , including logic programming with  , are designed to handle  . 
Other specialized versions of logic have been developed to describe many complex domains.
 Many problems in AI (including in reasoning, planning, learning, perception, and robotics) require the agent to operate with incomplete or uncertain information. AI researchers have devised a number of tools to solve these problems using methods from   theory and economics.  Precise mathematical tools have been developed that analyze how an agent can make choices and plan, using  ,  ,  and  .  These tools include models such as  ,  dynamic  ,    and  . 
  are a tool that can be used for   (using the   algorithm),    (using the  ),    (using  )  and   (using  ). 
 
Probabilistic algorithms can also be used for filtering, prediction, smoothing and finding explanations for streams of data, helping   systems to analyze processes that occur over time (e.g.,   or  ). The simplest AI applications can be divided into two types: classifiers (e.g., "if shiny then diamond"), on one hand, and controllers (e.g., "if diamond then pick up"), on the other hand.   are functions that use   to determine the closest match. They can be fine-tuned based on chosen examples using  . Each pattern (also called an " ") is labeled with a certain predefined class. All the observations combined with their class labels are known as a  . When a new observation is received, that observation is classified based on previous experience. 
 There are many kinds of classifiers in use. The   is the simplest and most widely used symbolic machine learning algorithm.    algorithm was the most widely used analogical AI until the mid-1990s, and   such as the   (SVM) displaced k-nearest neighbor in the 1990s. 
The   is reportedly the "most widely used learner"  at Google, due in part to its scalability. 
  are also used as classifiers. 
 An artificial neural network is based on a collection of nodes also known as  , which loosely model the   in a biological brain. It is trained to recognise patterns; once trained, it can recognise those patterns in fresh data. There is an input, at least one hidden layer of nodes and an output. Each node applies a function and once the   crosses its specified threshold, the data is transmitted to the next layer. A network is typically called a deep neural network if it has at least 2 hidden layers. 
 Learning algorithms for neural networks use   to choose the weights that will get the right output for each input during training. The most common training technique is the   algorithm. 
Neural networks learn to model complex relationships between inputs and outputs and   in data. In theory, a neural network can learn any function. 
 In   the signal passes in only one direction.    feed the output signal back into the input, which allows short-term memories of previous input events.   is the most successful network architecture for recurrent networks. 
 
use only a single layer of neurons, deep learning  uses multiple layers.
  strengthen the connection between neurons that are "close" to each other—this is especially important in  , where a local set of neurons must   before the network can identify an object. 
 Deep learning 
uses several layers of neurons between the network's inputs and outputs. The multiple layers can progressively extract higher-level features from the raw input. For example, in  , lower layers may identify edges, while higher layers may identify the concepts relevant to a human such as digits or letters or faces. 
 Deep learning has profoundly improved the performance of programs in many important subfields of artificial intelligence, including  ,  ,  ,   and others. The reason that deep learning performs so well in so many applications is not known as of 2023. 
The sudden success of deep learning in 2012–2015 did not occur because of some new discovery or theoretical breakthrough (deep neural networks and backpropagation had been described by many people, as far back as the 1950s) 
but because of two factors: the incredible increase in computer power (including the hundred-fold increase in speed by switching to  ) and the availability of vast amounts of training data, especially the giant   used for benchmark testing, such as  . 
  (GPT) are   that are based on the semantic relationships between words in sentences ( ). Text-based GPT models are pre-trained on a large corpus of text which can be from the internet. The pre-training consists in predicting the next   (a token being usually a word, subword, or punctuation). Throughout this pre-training, GPT models accumulate knowledge about the world, and can then generate human-like text by repeatedly predicting the next token. Typically, a subsequent training phase makes the model more truthful, useful and harmless, usually with a technique called   (RLHF). Current GPT models are still prone to generating falsehoods called " ", although this can be reduced with RLHF and quality data. They are used in  , which allow you to ask a question or request a task in simple text. 
 Current models and services include:   (formerly Bard),  ,  ,  ,   and  .    GPT models can process different types of data ( ) such as images, videos, sound and text. 
 In the late 2010s,   (GPUs) that were increasingly designed with AI-specific enhancements and used with specialized   software, had replaced previously used   (CPUs) as the dominant means for large-scale (commercial and academic)   models' training.  Historically, specialized languages, such as  ,  ,   and others, had been used.
 AI and machine learning technology is used in most of the essential applications of the 2020s, including:   (such as  ),  ,   (offered by  ,   or  ), driving  ,   ( ,  ),   (such as   or  ),   (including  ,   and  ),   ( ,  ),   ( 's   or  's   and  's  ) and   (used by  , Apple's   and  ).
 The application of AI in   and   has the potential to increase patient care and quality of life.  Through the lens of the  , medical professionals are ethically compelled to use AI, if applications can more accurately diagnose and treat patients.
 For medical research, AI is an important tool for processing and integrating  . This is particularly important for   and   development which use   imaging as a key technique in fabrication.  It has been suggested that AI can overcome discrepancies in funding allocated to different fields of research.  New AI tools can deepen the understanding of biomedically relevant pathways. For example,   (2021) demonstrated the ability to approximate, in hours rather than months, the 3D  .  In 2023, it was reported that AI-guided drug discovery helped find a class of antibiotics capable of killing two different types of drug-resistant bacteria.  In 2024, researchers used machine learning to accelerate the search for   drug treatments. Their aim was to identify compounds that block the clumping, or aggregation, of   (the protein that characterises Parkinson's disease). They were able to speed up the initial screening process ten-fold, and to reduce the cost by a thousand-fold. 
  programs have been used since the 1950s to demonstrate and test AI's most advanced techniques.    became the first computer chess-playing system to beat a reigning world chess champion,  , on 11 May 1997.  In 2011, in a     exhibition match,  's  ,  , defeated the two greatest   champions,   and  , by a significant margin.  In March 2016,   won 4 out of 5 games of   in a match with Go champion  , becoming the first  -playing system to beat a professional Go player without  . Then in 2017 it  , who was the best Go player in the world.  Other programs handle   games, such as the  -playing program  .    developed increasingly generalistic   models, such as with  , which could be trained to play chess, Go, or   games.  In 2019, DeepMind's AlphaStar achieved grandmaster level in  , a particularly challenging real-time strategy game that involves incomplete knowledge of what happens on the map.  In 2021, an AI agent competed in a PlayStation Gran Turismo competition, winning against four of the world's best Gran Turismo drivers using deep reinforcement learning. 
 Various countries are deploying AI military applications.  The main applications enhance  , communications, sensors, integration and interoperability.  Research is targeting intelligence collection and analysis, logistics, cyber operations, information operations, and semiautonomous and  .  AI technologies enable coordination of sensors and effectors, threat detection and identification, marking of enemy positions,  , coordination and deconfliction of distributed   between networked combat vehicles involving manned and unmanned teams.  AI was incorporated into military operations in Iraq and Syria. 
 In November 2023, US Vice President   disclosed a declaration signed by 31 nations to set guardrails for the military use of AI. The commitments include using legal reviews to ensure the compliance of military AI with international laws, and being cautious and transparent in the development of this technology. 
 In the early 2020s,   gained widespread prominence. In March 2023, 58% of U.S. adults had heard about   and 14% had tried it.  The increasing realism and ease-of-use of AI-based   generators such as  ,  , and   sparked a trend of   AI-generated photos. Widespread attention was gained by a fake photo of   wearing a white puffer coat, the fictional arrest of  , and a hoax of an attack on the  , as well as the usage in professional creative arts. 
 There are also thousands of successful AI applications used to solve specific problems for specific industries or institutions. In a 2017 survey, one in five companies reported they had incorporated "AI" in some offerings or processes.  A few examples are  , medical diagnosis, military logistics, applications that predict the result of judicial decisions,  , or supply chain management.
 In agriculture, AI has helped farmers identify areas that need irrigation, fertilization, pesticide treatments or increasing yield. Agronomists use AI to conduct research and development. AI has been used to predict the ripening time for crops such as tomatoes, monitor soil moisture, operate agricultural robots, conduct predictive analytics, classify livestock pig call emotions, automate greenhouses, detect diseases and pests, and save water.
 Artificial intelligence is used in astronomy to analyze increasing amounts of available data and applications, mainly for "classification, regression, clustering, forecasting, generation, discovery, and the development of new scientific insights" for example for discovering exoplanets, forecasting solar activity, and distinguishing between signals and instrumental effects in gravitational wave astronomy. It could also be used for activities in space such as space exploration, including analysis of data from space missions, real-time science decisions of spacecraft, space debris avoidance, and more autonomous operation.
 AI has potential benefits and potential risks. AI may be able to advance science and find solutions for serious problems:   of   hopes to "solve intelligence, and then use that to solve everything else".  However, as the use of AI has become widespread, several unintended consequences and risks have been identified.  In-production systems can sometimes not factor ethics and bias into their AI training processes, especially when the AI algorithms are inherently unexplainable in deep learning. 
 Machine-learning algorithms require large amounts of data. The techniques used to acquire this data have raised concerns about  ,   and  .
 Technology companies collect a wide range of data from their users, including online activity, geolocation data, video and audio. 
For example, in order to build   algorithms,   has recorded millions of private conversations and allowed   to listen to and transcribe some of them.  Opinions about this widespread   range from those who see it as a   to those for whom it is clearly   and a violation of the  . 
 AI developers argue that this is the only way to deliver valuable applications. and have developed several techniques that attempt to preserve privacy while still obtaining the data, such as  ,   and  .  Since 2016, some privacy experts, such as  , have begun to view privacy in terms of  .   wrote that experts have pivoted "from the question of 'what they know' to the question of 'what they're doing with it'." 
 Generative AI is often trained on unlicensed copyrighted works, including in domains such as images or computer code; the output is then used under the rationale of " ". Website owners who do not wish to have their copyrighted content AI-indexed or 'scraped' can add code to their site if they do not want their website to be indexed by a search engine, which is currently available through certain services such as  . Experts disagree about how well and under what circumstances this rationale will hold up in courts of law; relevant factors may include "the purpose and character of the use of the copyrighted work" and "the effect upon the potential market for the copyrighted work".  In 2023, leading authors (including   and  ) sued AI companies for using their work to train generative AI. 
 ,   and others use   to guide users to more content. These AI programs were given the goal of   user engagement (that is, the only goal was to keep people watching). The AI learned that users tended to choose  ,  , and extreme   content, and, to keep them watching, the AI recommended more of it. Users also tended to watch more content on the same subject, so the AI led people into   where they received multiple versions of the same misinformation.  This convinced many users that the misinformation was true, and ultimately undermined trust in institutions, the media and the government.  The AI program had correctly learned to maximize its goal, but the result was harmful to society. After the U.S. election in 2016, major technology companies took steps to mitigate the problem.
 In 2022,   began to create images, audio, video and text that are indistinguishable from real photographs, recordings, films or human writing. It is possible for bad actors to use this technology to create massive amounts of misinformation or propaganda.  AI pioneer   expressed concern about AI enabling "authoritarian leaders to manipulate their electorates" on a large scale, among other risks. 
 Machine learning applications will be biased if they learn from biased data.  The developers may not be aware that the bias exists. 
Bias can be introduced by the way   is selected and by the way a model is deployed.  If a biased algorithm is used to make decisions that can seriously   people (as it can in  ,  ,  ,   or  ) then the algorithm may cause  . 
  in machine learning is the study of how to prevent the harm caused by algorithmic bias. It has become serious area of academic study within AI. Researchers have discovered it is not always possible to define "fairness" in a way that satisfies all stakeholders. 
 On June 28, 2015,  's new image labeling feature mistakenly identified Jacky Alcine and a friend as "gorillas" because they were black. The system was trained on a dataset that contained very few images of black people,  a problem called "sample size disparity".  Google "fixed" this problem by preventing the system from labelling   as a "gorilla". Eight years later, in 2023, Google Photos still could not identify a gorilla, and neither could similar products from Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Amazon. 
  is a commercial program widely used by   to assess the likelihood of a   becoming a  .
In 2016,   at   discovered that COMPAS exhibited racial bias, despite the fact that the program was not told the races of the defendants. Although the error rate for both whites and blacks was calibrated equal at exactly 61%, the errors for each race were different—the system consistently overestimated the chance that a black person would re-offend and would underestimate the chance that a white person would not re-offend.  In 2017, several researchers  showed that it was mathematically impossible for COMPAS to accommodate all possible measures of fairness when the base rates of re-offense were different for whites and blacks in the data. 
 A program can make biased decisions even if the data does not explicitly mention a problematic feature (such as "race" or "gender"). The feature will correlate with other features (like "address", "shopping history" or "first name"), and the program will make the same decisions based on these features as it would on "race" or "gender". 
Moritz Hardt said "the most robust fact in this research area is that fairness through blindness doesn't work." 
 Criticism of COMPAS highlighted that machine learning models are designed to make "predictions" that are only valid if we assume that the future will resemble the past. If they are trained on data that includes the results of racist decisions in the past, machine learning models must predict that racist decisions will be made in the future. If an application then uses these predictions as  , some of these "recommendations" will likely be racist.  Thus, machine learning is not well suited to help make decisions in areas where there is hope that the future will be   than the past. It is necessarily descriptive and not proscriptive. 
 Bias and unfairness may go undetected because the developers are overwhelmingly white and male: among AI engineers, about 4% are black and 20% are women. 
 At its 2022   (ACM FAccT 2022), the  , in Seoul, South Korea, presented and published findings that recommend that until AI and robotics systems are demonstrated to be free of bias mistakes, they are unsafe, and the use of self-learning neural networks trained on vast, unregulated sources of flawed internet data should be curtailed. 
 Many AI systems are so complex that their designers cannot explain how they reach their decisions.  Particularly with  , in which there are a large amount of non-  relationships between inputs and outputs. But some popular explainability techniques exist. 
 It is impossible to be certain that a program is operating correctly if no one knows how exactly it works. There have been many cases where a machine learning program passed rigorous tests, but nevertheless learned something different than what the programmers intended. For example, a system that could identify skin diseases better than medical professionals was found to actually have a strong tendency to classify images with a   as "cancerous", because pictures of malignancies typically include a ruler to show the scale.  Another machine learning system designed to help effectively allocate medical resources was found to classify patients with asthma as being at "low risk" of dying from pneumonia. Having asthma is actually a severe risk factor, but since the patients having asthma would usually get much more medical care, they were relatively unlikely to die according to the training data. The correlation between asthma and low risk of dying from pneumonia was real, but misleading. 
 People who have been harmed by an algorithm's decision have a right to an explanation.  Doctors, for example, are expected to clearly and completely explain to their colleagues the reasoning behind any decision they make. Early drafts of the European Union's   in 2016 included an explicit statement that this right exists.  Industry experts noted that this is an unsolved problem with no solution in sight. Regulators argued that nevertheless the harm is real: if the problem has no solution, the tools should not be used. 
  established the   ("Explainable Artificial Intelligence") program in 2014 to try and solve these problems.  
 There are several possible solutions to the transparency problem. SHAP tried to solve the transparency problems by visualising the contribution of each feature to the output.  LIME can locally approximate a model with a simpler, interpretable model.    provides a large number of outputs in addition to the target classification. These other outputs can help developers deduce what the network has learned.   ,   and other   methods can allow developers to see what different layers of a deep network have learned and produce output that can suggest what the network is learning. 
 Artificial intelligence provides a number of tools that are useful to  , such as  ,  ,   or  .
 A lethal autonomous weapon is a machine that locates, selects and engages human targets without human supervision.  Widely available AI tools can be used by bad actors to develop inexpensive autonomous weapons and, if produced at scale, they are potentially  .  Even when used in conventional warfare, it is unlikely that they will be unable to reliably choose targets and could potentially  .  In 2014, 30 nations (including China) supported a ban on autonomous weapons under the  '  , however the   and others disagreed.  By 2015, over fifty countries were reported to be researching battlefield robots. 
 AI tools make it easier for   to efficiently control their citizens in several ways.   and   allow widespread  .  , operating this data, can   potential enemies of the state and prevent them from hiding.   can precisely target   and   for maximum effect.   and   aid in producing misinformation. Advanced AI can make authoritarian   more competitive than liberal and decentralized systems such as  . It lowers the cost and difficulty of   and  .  All these technologies have been available since 2020 or earlier—AI   are already being used for   in China. 
 There many other ways that AI is expected to help bad actors, some of which can not be foreseen. For example, machine-learning AI is able to design tens of thousands of toxic molecules in a matter of hours. 
 Training AI systems requires an enormous amount of computing power. Usually only   companies have the financial resources to make such investments. Smaller startups such as   and   end up buying access to   from   and   respectively. 
 Economists have frequently highlighted the risks of redundancies from AI, and speculated about unemployment if there is no adequate social policy for full employment. 
 In the past, technology has tended to increase rather than reduce total employment, but economists acknowledge that "we're in uncharted territory" with AI.  A survey of economists showed disagreement about whether the increasing use of robots and AI will cause a substantial increase in long-term  , but they generally agree that it could be a net benefit if   gains are  .  Risk estimates vary; for example, in the 2010s, Michael Osborne and   estimated 47% of U.S. jobs are at "high risk" of potential automation, while an OECD report classified only 9% of U.S. jobs as "high risk".  The methodology of speculating about future employment levels has been criticised as lacking evidential foundation, and for implying that technology, rather than social policy, creates unemployment, as opposed to redundancies.  In April 2023, it was reported that 70% of the jobs for Chinese video game illustrators had been eliminated by generative artificial intelligence. 
 Unlike previous waves of automation, many middle-class jobs may be eliminated by artificial intelligence;   stated in 2015 that "the worry that AI could do to white-collar jobs what steam power did to blue-collar ones during the Industrial Revolution" is "worth taking seriously".  Jobs at extreme risk range from   to fast food cooks, while job demand is likely to increase for care-related professions ranging from personal healthcare to the clergy. 
 From the early days of the development of artificial intelligence, there have been arguments, for example, those put forward by  , about whether tasks that can be done by computers actually should be done by them, given the difference between computers and humans, and between quantitative calculation and qualitative, value-based judgement. 
 It has been argued AI will become so powerful that humanity may irreversibly lose control of it. This could, as physicist   stated, " ".  This scenario has been common in science fiction, when a computer or robot suddenly develops a human-like "self-awareness" (or "sentience" or "consciousness") and becomes a malevolent character.  These sci-fi scenarios are misleading in several ways.
 First, AI does not require human-like " " to be an existential risk. Modern AI programs are given specific goals and use learning and intelligence to achieve them. Philosopher   argued that if one gives   goal to a sufficiently powerful AI, it may choose to destroy humanity to achieve it (he used the example of a  ).    gives the example of household robot that tries to find a way to kill its owner to prevent it from being unplugged, reasoning that "you can't fetch the coffee if you're dead."  In order to be safe for humanity, a   would have to be genuinely   with humanity's morality and values so that it is "fundamentally on our side". 
 Second,   argues that AI does not require a robot body or physical control to pose an existential risk. The essential parts of civilization are not physical. Things like  ,  ,  ,   and the   are made of  ; they exist because there are stories that billions of people believe. The current prevalence of   suggests that an AI could use language to convince people to believe anything, even to take actions that are destructive. 
 The opinions amongst experts and industry insiders are mixed, with sizable fractions both concerned and unconcerned by risk from eventual superintelligent AI.  Personalities such as  ,  , and   have expressed concern about existential risk from AI. 
AI pioneers including  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and   have expressed concerns about the risks of AI. In 2023, many leading AI experts issued the joint statement that "Mitigating the risk of extinction from AI should be a global priority alongside other societal-scale risks such as pandemics and nuclear war". 
 Other researchers, however, spoke in favor of a less dystopian view. AI pioneer   did not sign the joint statement, emphasising that in 95% of all cases, AI research is about making "human lives longer and healthier and easier."  While the tools that are now being used to improve lives can also be used by bad actors, "they can also be used against the bad actors."    also argued that "it's a mistake to fall for the doomsday hype on AI—and that regulators who do will only benefit vested interests."    "scoffs at his peers' dystopian scenarios of supercharged misinformation and even, eventually, human extinction."  In the early 2010s, experts argued that the risks are too distant in the future to warrant research or that humans will be valuable from the perspective of a superintelligent machine.  However, after 2016, the study of current and future risks and possible solutions became a serious area of research. 
 Friendly AI are machines that have been designed from the beginning to minimize risks and to make choices that benefit humans.  , who coined the term, argues that developing friendly AI should be a higher research priority: it may require a large investment and it must be completed before AI becomes an existential risk. 
 Machines with intelligence have the potential to use their intelligence to make ethical decisions. The field of machine ethics provides machines with ethical principles and procedures for resolving ethical dilemmas. 
The field of machine ethics is also called computational morality, 
and was founded at an   symposium in 2005. 
 Other approaches include  's "artificial moral agents"  and  's   for developing provably beneficial machines. 
 Active organizations in the AI open-source community include  ,   ,    and  .  Various AI models, such as  ,   or  , have been made open-weight,  meaning that their architecture and trained parameters (the "weights") are publicly available. Open-weight models can be freely  , which allows companies to specialize them with their own data and for their own use-case.  Open-weight models are useful for research and innovation, but can also be misused. Since they can be fine-tuned, any built-in security measure, such as objecting to harmful requests, can be trained away until it becomes ineffective. Some researchers warn that future AI models may develop dangerous capabilities (such as the potential to drastically facilitate  ), and that once released on the Internet, they can't be deleted everywhere if needed. They recommend pre-release audits and cost-benefit analyses. 
 Artificial Intelligence projects can have their ethical permissibility tested while designing, developing, and implementing an AI system. An AI framework such as the Care and Act Framework containing the SUM values—developed by the   tests projects in four main areas: 
 Other developments in ethical frameworks include those decided upon during the  , the Montreal Declaration for Responsible AI, and the IEEE's Ethics of Autonomous Systems initiative, among others;  however, these principles do not go without their criticisms, especially regards to the people chosen contributes to these frameworks. 
 Promotion of the wellbeing of the people and communities that these technologies affect requires consideration of the social and ethical implications at all stages of AI system design, development and implementation, and collaboration between job roles such as data scientists, product managers, data engineers, domain experts, and delivery managers. 
 The regulation of artificial intelligence is the development of public sector policies and laws for promoting and regulating artificial intelligence (AI); it is therefore related to the broader regulation of algorithms.  The regulatory and policy landscape for AI is an emerging issue in jurisdictions globally.  According to AI Index at  , the annual number of AI-related laws passed in the 127 survey countries jumped from one passed in 2016 to 37 passed in 2022 alone.  Between 2016 and 2020, more than 30 countries adopted dedicated strategies for AI.  Most EU member states had released national AI strategies, as had Canada, China, India, Japan, Mauritius, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, U.S., and Vietnam. Others were in the process of elaborating their own AI strategy, including Bangladesh, Malaysia and Tunisia.  The   was launched in June 2020, stating a need for AI to be developed in accordance with human rights and democratic values, to ensure public confidence and trust in the technology.   ,  , and   published a joint statement in November 2021 calling for a government commission to regulate AI.  In 2023, OpenAI leaders published recommendations for the governance of superintelligence, which they believe may happen in less than 10 years.  In 2023, the United Nations also launched an advisory body to provide recommendations on AI governance; the body comprises technology company executives, governments officials and academics. 
 In a 2022   survey, attitudes towards AI varied greatly by country; 78% of Chinese citizens, but only 35% of Americans, agreed that "products and services using AI have more benefits than drawbacks".  A 2023  /Ipsos poll found that 61% of Americans agree, and 22% disagree, that AI poses risks to humanity.  In a 2023   poll, 35% of Americans thought it "very important", and an additional 41% thought it "somewhat important", for the federal government to regulate AI, versus 13% responding "not very important" and 8% responding "not at all important". 
 In November 2023, the first global   was held in   in the UK to discuss the near and far term risks of AI and the possibility of mandatory and voluntary regulatory frameworks.  28 countries including the United States, China, and the European Union issued a declaration at the start of the summit, calling for international co-operation to manage the challenges and risks of artificial intelligence. 
 The study of mechanical or "formal" reasoning began with philosophers and mathematicians in antiquity. The study of logic led directly to  's  , which suggested that a machine, by shuffling symbols as simple as "0" and "1", could simulate any conceivable form of mathematical reasoning.  This, along with concurrent discoveries in  ,   and  , led researchers to consider the possibility of building an "electronic brain".  
They developed several areas of research that would become part of AI, 
such as   and   design for "artificial neurons" in 1943,  and Turing's influential 1950 paper ' ', which introduced the   and showed that "machine intelligence" was plausible. 
 The field of AI research was founded at   at   in 1956.  The attendees became the leaders of AI research in the 1960s.  They and their students produced programs that the press described as "astonishing":  computers were learning   strategies, solving word problems in algebra, proving   and speaking English.  Artificial intelligence laboratories were set up at a number of British and U.S. Universities in the latter 1950s and early 1960s. 
 Researchers in the 1960s and the 1970s were convinced that their methods would eventually succeed in creating a machine with   and considered this the goal of their field.    predicted, "machines will be capable, within twenty years, of doing any work a man can do".    agreed, writing, "within a generation ... the problem of creating 'artificial intelligence' will substantially be solved".  They had, however, underestimated the difficulty of the problem.  In 1974, both the U.S. and British governments cut off exploratory research in response to the   of   and ongoing pressure from the U.S. Congress to  .   's and  's book   was understood as proving that   would never be useful for solving real-world tasks, thus discrediting the approach altogether.  The " ", a period when obtaining funding for AI projects was difficult, followed. 
 In the early 1980s, AI research was revived by the commercial success of  ,  a form of AI program that simulated the knowledge and analytical skills of human experts. By 1985, the market for AI had reached over a billion dollars. At the same time, Japan's   project inspired the U.S. and British governments to restore funding for  .  However, beginning with the collapse of the   market in 1987, AI once again fell into disrepute, and a second, longer-lasting winter began. 
 Up to this point, most of AI's funding had gone to projects which used high level   to represent   like plans, goals, beliefs and known facts. In the 1980s, some researchers began to doubt that this approach would be able to imitate all the processes of human cognition, especially  ,  ,   and  ,  and began to look into "sub-symbolic" approaches.    rejected "representation" in general and focussed directly on engineering machines that move and survive.   ,   and others developed methods that handled incomplete and uncertain information by making reasonable guesses rather than precise logic.  But the most important development was the revival of " ", including neural network research, by   and others.  In 1990,   successfully showed that   can recognize handwritten digits, the first of many successful applications of neural networks. 
 AI gradually restored its reputation in the late 1990s and early 21st century by exploiting formal mathematical methods and by finding specific solutions to specific problems. This " " and "formal" focus allowed researchers to produce verifiable results and collaborate with other fields (such as  ,   and  ).  By 2000, solutions developed by AI researchers were being widely used, although in the 1990s they were rarely described as "artificial intelligence". 
However, several academic researchers became concerned that AI was no longer pursuing its original goal of creating versatile, fully intelligent machines. Beginning around 2002, they founded the subfield of   (or "AGI"), which had several well-funded institutions by the 2010s. 
  began to dominate industry benchmarks in 2012 and was adopted throughout the field. 
For many specific tasks, other methods were abandoned. 
Deep learning's success was based on both hardware improvements ( ,   ,  ) and access to   (including curated datasets,  such as  ). Deep learning's success led to an enormous increase in interest and funding in AI.  The amount of machine learning research (measured by total publications) increased by 50% in the years 2015–2019. 
 In 2016, issues of   and the misuse of technology were catapulted into center stage at machine learning conferences, publications vastly increased, funding became available, and many researchers re-focussed their careers on these issues. The   became a serious field of academic study. 
 In the late teens and early 2020s,   companies began to deliver programs that created enormous interest. In 2015,  , developed by  , beat the world champion  . The program was taught only the rules of the game and developed strategy by itself.   is a   that was released in 2020 by   and is capable of generating high-quality human-like text.  These programs, and others, inspired an aggressive  , where large companies began investing billions in AI research. According to 'AI Impacts', about $50 billion annually was invested in "AI" around 2022 in the U.S. alone and about 20% of the new U.S. Computer Science PhD graduates have specialized in "AI". 
About 800,000 "AI"-related U.S. job openings existed in 2022. 
  wrote in 1950 "I propose to consider the question 'can machines think'?"  He advised changing the question from whether a machine "thinks", to "whether or not it is possible for machinery to show intelligent behaviour".  He devised the Turing test, which measures the ability of a machine to simulate human conversation.  Since we can only observe the behavior of the machine, it does not matter if it is "actually" thinking or literally has a "mind". Turing notes that   but "it is usual to have a polite convention that everyone thinks" 
  and   agree with Turing that intelligence must be defined in terms of external behavior, not internal structure.  However, they are critical that the test requires the machine to imitate humans. "  texts," they wrote, "do not define the goal of their field as making 'machines that fly so exactly like   that they can fool other pigeons. "  AI founder   agreed, writing that "Artificial intelligence is not, by definition, simulation of human intelligence". 
 McCarthy defines intelligence as "the computational part of the ability to achieve goals in the world."  Another AI founder,   similarly describes it as "the ability to solve hard problems".  The leading AI textbook defines it as the study of agents that perceive their environment and take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.  These definitions view intelligence in terms of well-defined problems with well-defined solutions, where both the difficulty of the problem and the performance of the program are direct measures of the "intelligence" of the machine—and no other philosophical discussion is required, or may not even be possible.
 Another definition has been adopted by Google,  a major practitioner in the field of AI. This definition stipulates the ability of systems to synthesize information as the manifestation of intelligence, similar to the way it is defined in biological intelligence.
 No established unifying theory or   has guided AI research for most of its history.  The unprecedented success of statistical machine learning in the 2010s eclipsed all other approaches (so much so that some sources, especially in the business world, use the term "artificial intelligence" to mean "machine learning with neural networks"). This approach is mostly  ,   and  . Critics argue that these questions may have to be revisited by future generations of AI researchers.
  (or " ")  simulated the high-level conscious reasoning that people use when they solve puzzles, express legal reasoning and do mathematics. They were highly successful at "intelligent" tasks such as algebra or IQ tests. In the 1960s, Newell and Simon proposed the  : "A physical symbol system has the necessary and sufficient means of general intelligent action." 
 However, the symbolic approach failed on many tasks that humans solve easily, such as learning, recognizing an object or commonsense reasoning.   is the discovery that high-level "intelligent" tasks were easy for AI, but low level "instinctive" tasks were extremely difficult.  Philosopher   had   since the 1960s that human expertise depends on unconscious instinct rather than conscious symbol manipulation, and on having a "feel" for the situation, rather than explicit symbolic knowledge.  Although his arguments had been ridiculed and ignored when they were first presented, eventually, AI research came to agree with him. 
 The issue is not resolved:   reasoning can make many of the same inscrutable mistakes that human intuition does, such as  . Critics such as   argue continuing research into symbolic AI will still be necessary to attain general intelligence,  in part because sub-symbolic AI is a move away from  : it can be difficult or impossible to understand why a modern statistical AI program made a particular decision. The emerging field of   attempts to bridge the two approaches.
 "Neats" hope that intelligent behavior is described using simple, elegant principles (such as  ,  , or  ). "Scruffies" expect that it necessarily requires solving a large number of unrelated problems. Neats defend their programs with theoretical rigor, scruffies rely mainly on incremental testing to see if they work. This issue was actively discussed in the 1970s and 1980s,  but eventually was seen as irrelevant. Modern AI has elements of both.
 Finding a provably correct or optimal solution is   for many important problems.  Soft computing is a set of techniques, including  ,   and neural networks, that are tolerant of imprecision, uncertainty, partial truth and approximation. Soft computing was introduced in the late 1980s and most successful AI programs in the 21st century are examples of soft computing with neural networks.
 AI researchers are divided as to whether to pursue the goals of artificial general intelligence and   directly or to solve as many specific problems as possible (narrow AI) in hopes these solutions will lead indirectly to the field's long-term goals.  General intelligence is difficult to define and difficult to measure, and modern AI has had more verifiable successes by focusing on specific problems with specific solutions. The experimental sub-field of artificial general intelligence studies this area exclusively.
 The   does not know whether a machine can have a  ,   and  , in the same sense that human beings do. This issue considers the internal experiences of the machine, rather than its external behavior. Mainstream AI research considers this issue irrelevant because it does not affect the goals of the field: to build machines that can solve problems using intelligence.   and   add that "[t]he additional project of making a machine conscious in exactly the way humans are is not one that we are equipped to take on."  However, the question has become central to the philosophy of mind. It is also typically the central question at issue in  .
  identified two problems in understanding the mind, which he named the "hard" and "easy" problems of consciousness.  The easy problem is understanding how the brain processes signals, makes plans and controls behavior. The hard problem is explaining how this   or why it should feel like anything at all, assuming we are right in thinking that it truly does feel like something (Dennett's consciousness illusionism says this is an illusion). Human   is easy to explain, however, human   is difficult to explain. For example, it is easy to imagine a color-blind person who has learned to identify which objects in their field of view are red, but it is not clear what would be required for the person to  . 
 Computationalism is the position in the   that the human mind is an information processing system and that thinking is a form of computing. Computationalism argues that the relationship between mind and body is similar or identical to the relationship between software and hardware and thus may be a solution to the  . This philosophical position was inspired by the work of AI researchers and cognitive scientists in the 1960s and was originally proposed by philosophers   and  . 
 Philosopher   characterized this position as " ": "The appropriately programmed computer with the right inputs and outputs would thereby have a mind in exactly the same sense human beings have minds."  Searle counters this assertion with his Chinese room argument, which attempts to show that, even if a machine perfectly simulates human behavior, there is still no reason to suppose it also has a mind. 
 It is difficult or impossible to reliably evaluate whether an advanced   (has the ability to feel), and if so, to what degree.  But if there is a significant chance that a given machine can feel and suffer, then it may be entitled to certain rights or welfare protection measures, similarly to animals.    (a set of capacities related to high intelligence, such as discernment or  ) may provide another moral basis for AI rights.    are also sometimes proposed as a practical way to integrate autonomous agents into society. 
 In 2017, the European Union considered granting "electronic personhood" to some of the most capable AI systems. Similarly to the legal status of companies, it would have conferred rights but also responsibilities.  Critics argued in 2018 that granting rights to AI systems would downplay the importance of  , and that legislation should focus on user needs rather than speculative futuristic scenarios. They also noted that robots lacked the autonomy to take part to society on their own. 
 Progress in AI increased interest in the topic. Proponents of AI welfare and rights often argue that AI sentience, if it emerges, would be particularly easy to deny. They warn that this may be a   analogous to   or  , which could lead to   if sentient AI is created and carelessly exploited. 
 A   is a hypothetical agent that would possess intelligence far surpassing that of the brightest and most gifted human mind. 
 If research into   produced sufficiently intelligent software, it might be able to  . The improved software would be even better at improving itself, leading to what   called an " " and   called a " ". 
 However, technologies cannot improve exponentially indefinitely, and typically follow an  , slowing when they reach the physical limits of what the technology can do. 
 Robot designer  , cyberneticist  , and inventor   have predicted that humans and machines will merge in the future into   that are more capable and powerful than either. This idea, called transhumanism, has roots in   and  . 
  argues that "artificial intelligence is the next stage in evolution", an idea first proposed by  's " " as far back as 1863, and expanded upon by   in his book of the same name in 1998. 
 Thought-capable artificial beings have appeared as storytelling devices since antiquity,  and have been a persistent theme in  . 
 A common   in these works began with  's  , where a human creation becomes a threat to its masters. This includes such works as   and     (both 1968), with  , the murderous computer in charge of the   spaceship, as well as   (1984) and   (1999). In contrast, the rare loyal robots such as Gort from   (1951) and Bishop from   (1986) are less prominent in popular culture. 
  introduced the   in many books and stories, most notably the "Multivac" series about a super-intelligent computer of the same name. Asimov's laws are often brought up during lay discussions of machine ethics;  while almost all artificial intelligence researchers are familiar with Asimov's laws through popular culture, they generally consider the laws useless for many reasons, one of which is their ambiguity. 
 Several works use AI to force us to confront the fundamental question of what makes us human, showing us artificial beings that have  , and thus to suffer. This appears in  's  , the films   and  , as well as the novel  , by  . Dick considers the idea that our understanding of human subjectivity is altered by technology created with artificial intelligence. 
 The two most widely used textbooks in 2023. (See the  ).
 These were the four of the most widely used AI textbooks in 2008:
 Later editions.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_intelligence

Content: 
  ( ), in its broadest sense, is   exhibited by  , particularly  . It is a   in   that develops and studies methods and software which enable machines to   and uses   and intelligence to take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.  Such machines may be called AIs.
  is widely used  ,  , and science. Some high-profile applications include advanced   (e.g.,  );   (used by  ,  , and  ); interacting   (e.g.,  ,  , and  );   (e.g.,  );   and   tools (e.g.,   and  ); and   play and analysis in   (e.g.,   and  ).  However, many AI applications are not perceived as AI: "A lot of cutting edge AI has filtered into general applications, often without being called AI because once something becomes useful enough and common enough it's  ." 
  was the first person to conduct substantial research in the field that he called machine intelligence.  Artificial intelligence was founded as an academic discipline in 1956.  The field went through multiple cycles of optimism,  followed by periods of disappointment and loss of funding, known as  .  Funding and interest vastly increased after 2012 when   surpassed all previous AI techniques,  and after 2017 with the  .  This led to the   of the early 2020s, with companies, universities, and laboratories overwhelmingly based in the United States pioneering significant  . 
 The growing use of artificial intelligence in the 21st century is influencing   towards increased automation,  , and the   into various economic sectors and areas of life,  ,  , government, industry, and  . This raises questions about  ,  , and  , prompting discussions about   to ensure the  . 
 The various sub-fields of AI research are centered around particular goals and the use of particular tools. The traditional goals of AI research include  ,  ,  ,  ,  , perception, and support for  .   —the ability to complete any task performable by a human on an at least equal level—is among the field's long-term goals. 
 To reach these goals, AI researchers have adapted and integrated a wide range of techniques, including   and  ,  ,  , and methods based on  ,  , and  .  AI also draws upon  ,  ,  ,  , and other fields. 
 The general problem of simulating (or creating) intelligence has been broken into sub-problems. These consist of particular traits or capabilities that researchers expect an intelligent system to display. The traits described below have received the most attention and cover the scope of AI research. 
 Early researchers developed algorithms that imitated step-by-step reasoning that humans use when they solve puzzles or make logical  .  By the late 1980s and 1990s, methods were developed for dealing with   or incomplete information, employing concepts from   and  . 
 Many of these algorithms are insufficient for solving large reasoning problems because they experience a "combinatorial explosion": they became exponentially slower as the problems grew larger.  Even humans rarely use the step-by-step deduction that early AI research could model. They solve most of their problems using fast, intuitive judgments.  Accurate and efficient reasoning is an unsolved problem.
  and   allow AI programs to answer questions intelligently and make deductions about real-world facts. Formal knowledge representations are used in content-based indexing and retrieval,  scene interpretation,  clinical decision support,  knowledge discovery (mining "interesting" and actionable inferences from large  ),  and other areas. 
 A   is a body of knowledge represented in a form that can be used by a program. An   is the set of objects, relations, concepts, and properties used by a particular domain of knowledge.  Knowledge bases need to represent things such as: objects, properties, categories and relations between objects;  situations, events, states and time;  causes and effects;  knowledge about knowledge (what we know about what other people know);    (things that humans assume are true until they are told differently and will remain true even when other facts are changing);  and many other aspects and domains of knowledge.
 Among the most difficult problems in knowledge representation are: the breadth of commonsense knowledge (the set of atomic facts that the average person knows is enormous);  and the sub-symbolic form of most commonsense knowledge (much of what people know is not represented as "facts" or "statements" that they could express verbally).  There is also the difficulty of  , the problem of obtaining knowledge for AI applications. 
 An "agent" is anything that perceives and takes actions in the world. A   has goals or preferences and takes actions to make them happen.  In  , the agent has a specific goal.  In  , the agent has preferences—there are some situations it would prefer to be in, and some situations it is trying to avoid. The decision making agent assigns a number to each situation (called the " ") that measures how much the agent prefers it. For each possible action, it can calculate the " ": the   of all possible outcomes of the action, weighted by the probability that the outcome will occur. It can then choose the action with the maximum expected utility. 
 In  , the agent knows exactly what the effect of any action will be.  In most real-world problems, however, the agent may not be certain about the situation they are in (it is "unknown" or "unobservable") and it may not know for certain what will happen after each possible action (it is not "deterministic"). It must choose an action by making a probabilistic guess and then reassess the situation to see if the action worked. 
 In some problems, the agent's preferences may be uncertain, especially if there are other agents or humans involved. These can be learned (e.g., with  ) or the agent can seek information to improve its preferences.    can be used to weigh the value of exploratory or experimental actions.  The space of possible future actions and situations is typically   large, so the agents must take actions and evaluate situations while being uncertain what the outcome will be.
 A   has a   that describes the probability that a particular action will change the state in a particular way, and a   that supplies the utility of each state and the cost of each action. A   associates a decision with each possible state. The policy could be calculated (e.g., by  ), be  , or it can be learned. 
  describes rational behavior of multiple interacting agents, and is used in AI programs that make decisions that involve other agents. 
  is the study of programs that can improve their performance on a given task automatically.  It has been a part of AI from the beginning. 
 There are several kinds of machine learning.   analyzes a stream of data and finds patterns and makes predictions without any other guidance.    requires a human to label the input data first, and comes in two main varieties:   (where the program must learn to predict what category the input belongs in) and   (where the program must deduce a numeric function based on numeric input). 
 In   the agent is rewarded for good responses and punished for bad ones. The agent learns to choose responses that are classified as "good".    is when the knowledge gained from one problem is applied to a new problem.    is a type of machine learning that runs inputs through biologically inspired   for all of these types of learning. 
  can assess learners by  , by   (how much data is required), or by other notions of  . 
  (NLP)  allows programs to read, write and communicate in human languages such as  . Specific problems include  ,  ,  ,  ,   and  . 
 Early work, based on  's   and  , had difficulty with   unless restricted to small domains called " " (due to the common sense knowledge problem ).   believed that it was meaning and not grammar that was the key to understanding languages, and that   and not dictionaries should be the basis of computational language structure.
 Modern deep learning techniques for NLP include   (representing words, typically as   encoding their meaning),    (a deep learning architecture using an   mechanism),  and others.  In 2019,   (or "GPT") language models began to generate coherent text,  and by 2023 these models were able to get human-level scores on the  ,   test,   test, and many other real-world applications. 
  is the ability to use input from sensors (such as cameras, microphones, wireless signals, active  , sonar, radar, and  ) to deduce aspects of the world.   is the ability to analyze visual input. 
 The field includes  ,   ,   ,  ,  and  . 
  is an interdisciplinary umbrella that comprises systems that recognize, interpret, process or simulate human  .  For example, some   are programmed to speak conversationally or even to banter humorously; it makes them appear more sensitive to the emotional dynamics of human interaction, or to otherwise facilitate  .
 However, this tends to give naïve users an unrealistic conception of the intelligence of existing computer agents.  Moderate successes related to affective computing include textual   and, more recently,  , wherein AI classifies the affects displayed by a videotaped subject. 
 A machine with   should be able to solve a wide variety of problems with breadth and versatility similar to human intelligence. 
 AI research uses a wide variety of techniques to accomplish the goals above. 
 AI can solve many problems by intelligently searching through many possible solutions.  There are two very different kinds of search used in AI:   and  .
  searches through a tree of possible states to try to find a goal state.  For example,   algorithms search through trees of goals and subgoals, attempting to find a path to a target goal, a process called  . 
  are rarely sufficient for most real-world problems: the   (the number of places to search) quickly grows to  . The result is a search that is   or never completes.  " " or "rules of thumb" can help to prioritize choices that are more likely to reach a goal. 
  is used for   programs, such as chess or Go. It searches through a   of possible moves and counter-moves, looking for a winning position. 
  uses   to find a solution to a problem. It begins with some form of guess and refines it incrementally. 
  is a type of local search that optimizes a set of numerical parameters by incrementally adjusting them to minimize a  . Variants of gradient descent are commonly used to train neural networks. 
 Another type of local search is  , which aims to iteratively improve a set of candidate solutions by "mutating" and "recombining" them,   only the fittest to survive each generation. 
 Distributed search processes can coordinate via   algorithms. Two popular swarm algorithms used in search are   (inspired by bird  ) and   (inspired by  ). 
 Formal   is used for   and  . 
Formal logic comes in two main forms:   (which operates on statements that are true or false and uses   such as "and", "or", "not" and "implies")  and   (which also operates on objects, predicates and relations and uses   such as "    is a  " and "There are    s that are  s"). 
  in logic is the process of   a new statement ( ) from other statements that are given and assumed to be true (the  ).  Proofs can be structured as proof  , in which nodes are labelled by sentences, and children nodes are connected to  parent nodes by  .
 Given a problem and a set of premises, problem-solving reduces to searching for a proof tree whose root node is labelled by a solution of the problem and whose leaf nodes are labelled by premises or  . In the case of  , problem-solving search can be performed by reasoning   from the premises or   from the problem.  In the more general case of the clausal form of  ,   is a single, axiom-free rule of inference, in which a problem is solved by proving a contradiction from premises that include the negation of the problem to be solved. 
 Inference in both Horn clause logic and first-order logic is  , and therefore  . However, backward reasoning with Horn clauses, which underpins computation in the   language  , is  . Moreover, its efficiency is competitive with computation in other   languages. 
  assigns a "degree of truth" between 0 and 1. It can therefore handle propositions that are vague and partially true. 
 , including logic programming with  , are designed to handle  . 
Other specialized versions of logic have been developed to describe many complex domains.
 Many problems in AI (including in reasoning, planning, learning, perception, and robotics) require the agent to operate with incomplete or uncertain information. AI researchers have devised a number of tools to solve these problems using methods from   theory and economics.  Precise mathematical tools have been developed that analyze how an agent can make choices and plan, using  ,  ,  and  .  These tools include models such as  ,  dynamic  ,    and  . 
  are a tool that can be used for   (using the   algorithm),    (using the  ),    (using  )  and   (using  ). 
 
Probabilistic algorithms can also be used for filtering, prediction, smoothing and finding explanations for streams of data, helping   systems to analyze processes that occur over time (e.g.,   or  ). The simplest AI applications can be divided into two types: classifiers (e.g., "if shiny then diamond"), on one hand, and controllers (e.g., "if diamond then pick up"), on the other hand.   are functions that use   to determine the closest match. They can be fine-tuned based on chosen examples using  . Each pattern (also called an " ") is labeled with a certain predefined class. All the observations combined with their class labels are known as a  . When a new observation is received, that observation is classified based on previous experience. 
 There are many kinds of classifiers in use. The   is the simplest and most widely used symbolic machine learning algorithm.    algorithm was the most widely used analogical AI until the mid-1990s, and   such as the   (SVM) displaced k-nearest neighbor in the 1990s. 
The   is reportedly the "most widely used learner"  at Google, due in part to its scalability. 
  are also used as classifiers. 
 An artificial neural network is based on a collection of nodes also known as  , which loosely model the   in a biological brain. It is trained to recognise patterns; once trained, it can recognise those patterns in fresh data. There is an input, at least one hidden layer of nodes and an output. Each node applies a function and once the   crosses its specified threshold, the data is transmitted to the next layer. A network is typically called a deep neural network if it has at least 2 hidden layers. 
 Learning algorithms for neural networks use   to choose the weights that will get the right output for each input during training. The most common training technique is the   algorithm. 
Neural networks learn to model complex relationships between inputs and outputs and   in data. In theory, a neural network can learn any function. 
 In   the signal passes in only one direction.    feed the output signal back into the input, which allows short-term memories of previous input events.   is the most successful network architecture for recurrent networks. 
 
use only a single layer of neurons, deep learning  uses multiple layers.
  strengthen the connection between neurons that are "close" to each other—this is especially important in  , where a local set of neurons must   before the network can identify an object. 
 Deep learning 
uses several layers of neurons between the network's inputs and outputs. The multiple layers can progressively extract higher-level features from the raw input. For example, in  , lower layers may identify edges, while higher layers may identify the concepts relevant to a human such as digits or letters or faces. 
 Deep learning has profoundly improved the performance of programs in many important subfields of artificial intelligence, including  ,  ,  ,   and others. The reason that deep learning performs so well in so many applications is not known as of 2023. 
The sudden success of deep learning in 2012–2015 did not occur because of some new discovery or theoretical breakthrough (deep neural networks and backpropagation had been described by many people, as far back as the 1950s) 
but because of two factors: the incredible increase in computer power (including the hundred-fold increase in speed by switching to  ) and the availability of vast amounts of training data, especially the giant   used for benchmark testing, such as  . 
  (GPT) are   that are based on the semantic relationships between words in sentences ( ). Text-based GPT models are pre-trained on a large corpus of text which can be from the internet. The pre-training consists in predicting the next   (a token being usually a word, subword, or punctuation). Throughout this pre-training, GPT models accumulate knowledge about the world, and can then generate human-like text by repeatedly predicting the next token. Typically, a subsequent training phase makes the model more truthful, useful and harmless, usually with a technique called   (RLHF). Current GPT models are still prone to generating falsehoods called " ", although this can be reduced with RLHF and quality data. They are used in  , which allow you to ask a question or request a task in simple text. 
 Current models and services include:   (formerly Bard),  ,  ,  ,   and  .    GPT models can process different types of data ( ) such as images, videos, sound and text. 
 In the late 2010s,   (GPUs) that were increasingly designed with AI-specific enhancements and used with specialized   software, had replaced previously used   (CPUs) as the dominant means for large-scale (commercial and academic)   models' training.  Historically, specialized languages, such as  ,  ,   and others, had been used.
 AI and machine learning technology is used in most of the essential applications of the 2020s, including:   (such as  ),  ,   (offered by  ,   or  ), driving  ,   ( ,  ),   (such as   or  ),   (including  ,   and  ),   ( ,  ),   ( 's   or  's   and  's  ) and   (used by  , Apple's   and  ).
 The application of AI in   and   has the potential to increase patient care and quality of life.  Through the lens of the  , medical professionals are ethically compelled to use AI, if applications can more accurately diagnose and treat patients.
 For medical research, AI is an important tool for processing and integrating  . This is particularly important for   and   development which use   imaging as a key technique in fabrication.  It has been suggested that AI can overcome discrepancies in funding allocated to different fields of research.  New AI tools can deepen the understanding of biomedically relevant pathways. For example,   (2021) demonstrated the ability to approximate, in hours rather than months, the 3D  .  In 2023, it was reported that AI-guided drug discovery helped find a class of antibiotics capable of killing two different types of drug-resistant bacteria.  In 2024, researchers used machine learning to accelerate the search for   drug treatments. Their aim was to identify compounds that block the clumping, or aggregation, of   (the protein that characterises Parkinson's disease). They were able to speed up the initial screening process ten-fold, and to reduce the cost by a thousand-fold. 
  programs have been used since the 1950s to demonstrate and test AI's most advanced techniques.    became the first computer chess-playing system to beat a reigning world chess champion,  , on 11 May 1997.  In 2011, in a     exhibition match,  's  ,  , defeated the two greatest   champions,   and  , by a significant margin.  In March 2016,   won 4 out of 5 games of   in a match with Go champion  , becoming the first  -playing system to beat a professional Go player without  . Then in 2017 it  , who was the best Go player in the world.  Other programs handle   games, such as the  -playing program  .    developed increasingly generalistic   models, such as with  , which could be trained to play chess, Go, or   games.  In 2019, DeepMind's AlphaStar achieved grandmaster level in  , a particularly challenging real-time strategy game that involves incomplete knowledge of what happens on the map.  In 2021, an AI agent competed in a PlayStation Gran Turismo competition, winning against four of the world's best Gran Turismo drivers using deep reinforcement learning. 
 Various countries are deploying AI military applications.  The main applications enhance  , communications, sensors, integration and interoperability.  Research is targeting intelligence collection and analysis, logistics, cyber operations, information operations, and semiautonomous and  .  AI technologies enable coordination of sensors and effectors, threat detection and identification, marking of enemy positions,  , coordination and deconfliction of distributed   between networked combat vehicles involving manned and unmanned teams.  AI was incorporated into military operations in Iraq and Syria. 
 In November 2023, US Vice President   disclosed a declaration signed by 31 nations to set guardrails for the military use of AI. The commitments include using legal reviews to ensure the compliance of military AI with international laws, and being cautious and transparent in the development of this technology. 
 In the early 2020s,   gained widespread prominence. In March 2023, 58% of U.S. adults had heard about   and 14% had tried it.  The increasing realism and ease-of-use of AI-based   generators such as  ,  , and   sparked a trend of   AI-generated photos. Widespread attention was gained by a fake photo of   wearing a white puffer coat, the fictional arrest of  , and a hoax of an attack on the  , as well as the usage in professional creative arts. 
 There are also thousands of successful AI applications used to solve specific problems for specific industries or institutions. In a 2017 survey, one in five companies reported they had incorporated "AI" in some offerings or processes.  A few examples are  , medical diagnosis, military logistics, applications that predict the result of judicial decisions,  , or supply chain management.
 In agriculture, AI has helped farmers identify areas that need irrigation, fertilization, pesticide treatments or increasing yield. Agronomists use AI to conduct research and development. AI has been used to predict the ripening time for crops such as tomatoes, monitor soil moisture, operate agricultural robots, conduct predictive analytics, classify livestock pig call emotions, automate greenhouses, detect diseases and pests, and save water.
 Artificial intelligence is used in astronomy to analyze increasing amounts of available data and applications, mainly for "classification, regression, clustering, forecasting, generation, discovery, and the development of new scientific insights" for example for discovering exoplanets, forecasting solar activity, and distinguishing between signals and instrumental effects in gravitational wave astronomy. It could also be used for activities in space such as space exploration, including analysis of data from space missions, real-time science decisions of spacecraft, space debris avoidance, and more autonomous operation.
 AI has potential benefits and potential risks. AI may be able to advance science and find solutions for serious problems:   of   hopes to "solve intelligence, and then use that to solve everything else".  However, as the use of AI has become widespread, several unintended consequences and risks have been identified.  In-production systems can sometimes not factor ethics and bias into their AI training processes, especially when the AI algorithms are inherently unexplainable in deep learning. 
 Machine-learning algorithms require large amounts of data. The techniques used to acquire this data have raised concerns about  ,   and  .
 Technology companies collect a wide range of data from their users, including online activity, geolocation data, video and audio. 
For example, in order to build   algorithms,   has recorded millions of private conversations and allowed   to listen to and transcribe some of them.  Opinions about this widespread   range from those who see it as a   to those for whom it is clearly   and a violation of the  . 
 AI developers argue that this is the only way to deliver valuable applications. and have developed several techniques that attempt to preserve privacy while still obtaining the data, such as  ,   and  .  Since 2016, some privacy experts, such as  , have begun to view privacy in terms of  .   wrote that experts have pivoted "from the question of 'what they know' to the question of 'what they're doing with it'." 
 Generative AI is often trained on unlicensed copyrighted works, including in domains such as images or computer code; the output is then used under the rationale of " ". Website owners who do not wish to have their copyrighted content AI-indexed or 'scraped' can add code to their site if they do not want their website to be indexed by a search engine, which is currently available through certain services such as  . Experts disagree about how well and under what circumstances this rationale will hold up in courts of law; relevant factors may include "the purpose and character of the use of the copyrighted work" and "the effect upon the potential market for the copyrighted work".  In 2023, leading authors (including   and  ) sued AI companies for using their work to train generative AI. 
 ,   and others use   to guide users to more content. These AI programs were given the goal of   user engagement (that is, the only goal was to keep people watching). The AI learned that users tended to choose  ,  , and extreme   content, and, to keep them watching, the AI recommended more of it. Users also tended to watch more content on the same subject, so the AI led people into   where they received multiple versions of the same misinformation.  This convinced many users that the misinformation was true, and ultimately undermined trust in institutions, the media and the government.  The AI program had correctly learned to maximize its goal, but the result was harmful to society. After the U.S. election in 2016, major technology companies took steps to mitigate the problem.
 In 2022,   began to create images, audio, video and text that are indistinguishable from real photographs, recordings, films or human writing. It is possible for bad actors to use this technology to create massive amounts of misinformation or propaganda.  AI pioneer   expressed concern about AI enabling "authoritarian leaders to manipulate their electorates" on a large scale, among other risks. 
 Machine learning applications will be biased if they learn from biased data.  The developers may not be aware that the bias exists. 
Bias can be introduced by the way   is selected and by the way a model is deployed.  If a biased algorithm is used to make decisions that can seriously   people (as it can in  ,  ,  ,   or  ) then the algorithm may cause  . 
  in machine learning is the study of how to prevent the harm caused by algorithmic bias. It has become serious area of academic study within AI. Researchers have discovered it is not always possible to define "fairness" in a way that satisfies all stakeholders. 
 On June 28, 2015,  's new image labeling feature mistakenly identified Jacky Alcine and a friend as "gorillas" because they were black. The system was trained on a dataset that contained very few images of black people,  a problem called "sample size disparity".  Google "fixed" this problem by preventing the system from labelling   as a "gorilla". Eight years later, in 2023, Google Photos still could not identify a gorilla, and neither could similar products from Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Amazon. 
  is a commercial program widely used by   to assess the likelihood of a   becoming a  .
In 2016,   at   discovered that COMPAS exhibited racial bias, despite the fact that the program was not told the races of the defendants. Although the error rate for both whites and blacks was calibrated equal at exactly 61%, the errors for each race were different—the system consistently overestimated the chance that a black person would re-offend and would underestimate the chance that a white person would not re-offend.  In 2017, several researchers  showed that it was mathematically impossible for COMPAS to accommodate all possible measures of fairness when the base rates of re-offense were different for whites and blacks in the data. 
 A program can make biased decisions even if the data does not explicitly mention a problematic feature (such as "race" or "gender"). The feature will correlate with other features (like "address", "shopping history" or "first name"), and the program will make the same decisions based on these features as it would on "race" or "gender". 
Moritz Hardt said "the most robust fact in this research area is that fairness through blindness doesn't work." 
 Criticism of COMPAS highlighted that machine learning models are designed to make "predictions" that are only valid if we assume that the future will resemble the past. If they are trained on data that includes the results of racist decisions in the past, machine learning models must predict that racist decisions will be made in the future. If an application then uses these predictions as  , some of these "recommendations" will likely be racist.  Thus, machine learning is not well suited to help make decisions in areas where there is hope that the future will be   than the past. It is necessarily descriptive and not proscriptive. 
 Bias and unfairness may go undetected because the developers are overwhelmingly white and male: among AI engineers, about 4% are black and 20% are women. 
 At its 2022   (ACM FAccT 2022), the  , in Seoul, South Korea, presented and published findings that recommend that until AI and robotics systems are demonstrated to be free of bias mistakes, they are unsafe, and the use of self-learning neural networks trained on vast, unregulated sources of flawed internet data should be curtailed. 
 Many AI systems are so complex that their designers cannot explain how they reach their decisions.  Particularly with  , in which there are a large amount of non-  relationships between inputs and outputs. But some popular explainability techniques exist. 
 It is impossible to be certain that a program is operating correctly if no one knows how exactly it works. There have been many cases where a machine learning program passed rigorous tests, but nevertheless learned something different than what the programmers intended. For example, a system that could identify skin diseases better than medical professionals was found to actually have a strong tendency to classify images with a   as "cancerous", because pictures of malignancies typically include a ruler to show the scale.  Another machine learning system designed to help effectively allocate medical resources was found to classify patients with asthma as being at "low risk" of dying from pneumonia. Having asthma is actually a severe risk factor, but since the patients having asthma would usually get much more medical care, they were relatively unlikely to die according to the training data. The correlation between asthma and low risk of dying from pneumonia was real, but misleading. 
 People who have been harmed by an algorithm's decision have a right to an explanation.  Doctors, for example, are expected to clearly and completely explain to their colleagues the reasoning behind any decision they make. Early drafts of the European Union's   in 2016 included an explicit statement that this right exists.  Industry experts noted that this is an unsolved problem with no solution in sight. Regulators argued that nevertheless the harm is real: if the problem has no solution, the tools should not be used. 
  established the   ("Explainable Artificial Intelligence") program in 2014 to try and solve these problems.  
 There are several possible solutions to the transparency problem. SHAP tried to solve the transparency problems by visualising the contribution of each feature to the output.  LIME can locally approximate a model with a simpler, interpretable model.    provides a large number of outputs in addition to the target classification. These other outputs can help developers deduce what the network has learned.   ,   and other   methods can allow developers to see what different layers of a deep network have learned and produce output that can suggest what the network is learning. 
 Artificial intelligence provides a number of tools that are useful to  , such as  ,  ,   or  .
 A lethal autonomous weapon is a machine that locates, selects and engages human targets without human supervision.  Widely available AI tools can be used by bad actors to develop inexpensive autonomous weapons and, if produced at scale, they are potentially  .  Even when used in conventional warfare, it is unlikely that they will be unable to reliably choose targets and could potentially  .  In 2014, 30 nations (including China) supported a ban on autonomous weapons under the  '  , however the   and others disagreed.  By 2015, over fifty countries were reported to be researching battlefield robots. 
 AI tools make it easier for   to efficiently control their citizens in several ways.   and   allow widespread  .  , operating this data, can   potential enemies of the state and prevent them from hiding.   can precisely target   and   for maximum effect.   and   aid in producing misinformation. Advanced AI can make authoritarian   more competitive than liberal and decentralized systems such as  . It lowers the cost and difficulty of   and  .  All these technologies have been available since 2020 or earlier—AI   are already being used for   in China. 
 There many other ways that AI is expected to help bad actors, some of which can not be foreseen. For example, machine-learning AI is able to design tens of thousands of toxic molecules in a matter of hours. 
 Training AI systems requires an enormous amount of computing power. Usually only   companies have the financial resources to make such investments. Smaller startups such as   and   end up buying access to   from   and   respectively. 
 Economists have frequently highlighted the risks of redundancies from AI, and speculated about unemployment if there is no adequate social policy for full employment. 
 In the past, technology has tended to increase rather than reduce total employment, but economists acknowledge that "we're in uncharted territory" with AI.  A survey of economists showed disagreement about whether the increasing use of robots and AI will cause a substantial increase in long-term  , but they generally agree that it could be a net benefit if   gains are  .  Risk estimates vary; for example, in the 2010s, Michael Osborne and   estimated 47% of U.S. jobs are at "high risk" of potential automation, while an OECD report classified only 9% of U.S. jobs as "high risk".  The methodology of speculating about future employment levels has been criticised as lacking evidential foundation, and for implying that technology, rather than social policy, creates unemployment, as opposed to redundancies.  In April 2023, it was reported that 70% of the jobs for Chinese video game illustrators had been eliminated by generative artificial intelligence. 
 Unlike previous waves of automation, many middle-class jobs may be eliminated by artificial intelligence;   stated in 2015 that "the worry that AI could do to white-collar jobs what steam power did to blue-collar ones during the Industrial Revolution" is "worth taking seriously".  Jobs at extreme risk range from   to fast food cooks, while job demand is likely to increase for care-related professions ranging from personal healthcare to the clergy. 
 From the early days of the development of artificial intelligence, there have been arguments, for example, those put forward by  , about whether tasks that can be done by computers actually should be done by them, given the difference between computers and humans, and between quantitative calculation and qualitative, value-based judgement. 
 It has been argued AI will become so powerful that humanity may irreversibly lose control of it. This could, as physicist   stated, " ".  This scenario has been common in science fiction, when a computer or robot suddenly develops a human-like "self-awareness" (or "sentience" or "consciousness") and becomes a malevolent character.  These sci-fi scenarios are misleading in several ways.
 First, AI does not require human-like " " to be an existential risk. Modern AI programs are given specific goals and use learning and intelligence to achieve them. Philosopher   argued that if one gives   goal to a sufficiently powerful AI, it may choose to destroy humanity to achieve it (he used the example of a  ).    gives the example of household robot that tries to find a way to kill its owner to prevent it from being unplugged, reasoning that "you can't fetch the coffee if you're dead."  In order to be safe for humanity, a   would have to be genuinely   with humanity's morality and values so that it is "fundamentally on our side". 
 Second,   argues that AI does not require a robot body or physical control to pose an existential risk. The essential parts of civilization are not physical. Things like  ,  ,  ,   and the   are made of  ; they exist because there are stories that billions of people believe. The current prevalence of   suggests that an AI could use language to convince people to believe anything, even to take actions that are destructive. 
 The opinions amongst experts and industry insiders are mixed, with sizable fractions both concerned and unconcerned by risk from eventual superintelligent AI.  Personalities such as  ,  , and   have expressed concern about existential risk from AI. 
AI pioneers including  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and   have expressed concerns about the risks of AI. In 2023, many leading AI experts issued the joint statement that "Mitigating the risk of extinction from AI should be a global priority alongside other societal-scale risks such as pandemics and nuclear war". 
 Other researchers, however, spoke in favor of a less dystopian view. AI pioneer   did not sign the joint statement, emphasising that in 95% of all cases, AI research is about making "human lives longer and healthier and easier."  While the tools that are now being used to improve lives can also be used by bad actors, "they can also be used against the bad actors."    also argued that "it's a mistake to fall for the doomsday hype on AI—and that regulators who do will only benefit vested interests."    "scoffs at his peers' dystopian scenarios of supercharged misinformation and even, eventually, human extinction."  In the early 2010s, experts argued that the risks are too distant in the future to warrant research or that humans will be valuable from the perspective of a superintelligent machine.  However, after 2016, the study of current and future risks and possible solutions became a serious area of research. 
 Friendly AI are machines that have been designed from the beginning to minimize risks and to make choices that benefit humans.  , who coined the term, argues that developing friendly AI should be a higher research priority: it may require a large investment and it must be completed before AI becomes an existential risk. 
 Machines with intelligence have the potential to use their intelligence to make ethical decisions. The field of machine ethics provides machines with ethical principles and procedures for resolving ethical dilemmas. 
The field of machine ethics is also called computational morality, 
and was founded at an   symposium in 2005. 
 Other approaches include  's "artificial moral agents"  and  's   for developing provably beneficial machines. 
 Active organizations in the AI open-source community include  ,   ,    and  .  Various AI models, such as  ,   or  , have been made open-weight,  meaning that their architecture and trained parameters (the "weights") are publicly available. Open-weight models can be freely  , which allows companies to specialize them with their own data and for their own use-case.  Open-weight models are useful for research and innovation, but can also be misused. Since they can be fine-tuned, any built-in security measure, such as objecting to harmful requests, can be trained away until it becomes ineffective. Some researchers warn that future AI models may develop dangerous capabilities (such as the potential to drastically facilitate  ), and that once released on the Internet, they can't be deleted everywhere if needed. They recommend pre-release audits and cost-benefit analyses. 
 Artificial Intelligence projects can have their ethical permissibility tested while designing, developing, and implementing an AI system. An AI framework such as the Care and Act Framework containing the SUM values—developed by the   tests projects in four main areas: 
 Other developments in ethical frameworks include those decided upon during the  , the Montreal Declaration for Responsible AI, and the IEEE's Ethics of Autonomous Systems initiative, among others;  however, these principles do not go without their criticisms, especially regards to the people chosen contributes to these frameworks. 
 Promotion of the wellbeing of the people and communities that these technologies affect requires consideration of the social and ethical implications at all stages of AI system design, development and implementation, and collaboration between job roles such as data scientists, product managers, data engineers, domain experts, and delivery managers. 
 The regulation of artificial intelligence is the development of public sector policies and laws for promoting and regulating artificial intelligence (AI); it is therefore related to the broader regulation of algorithms.  The regulatory and policy landscape for AI is an emerging issue in jurisdictions globally.  According to AI Index at  , the annual number of AI-related laws passed in the 127 survey countries jumped from one passed in 2016 to 37 passed in 2022 alone.  Between 2016 and 2020, more than 30 countries adopted dedicated strategies for AI.  Most EU member states had released national AI strategies, as had Canada, China, India, Japan, Mauritius, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, U.S., and Vietnam. Others were in the process of elaborating their own AI strategy, including Bangladesh, Malaysia and Tunisia.  The   was launched in June 2020, stating a need for AI to be developed in accordance with human rights and democratic values, to ensure public confidence and trust in the technology.   ,  , and   published a joint statement in November 2021 calling for a government commission to regulate AI.  In 2023, OpenAI leaders published recommendations for the governance of superintelligence, which they believe may happen in less than 10 years.  In 2023, the United Nations also launched an advisory body to provide recommendations on AI governance; the body comprises technology company executives, governments officials and academics. 
 In a 2022   survey, attitudes towards AI varied greatly by country; 78% of Chinese citizens, but only 35% of Americans, agreed that "products and services using AI have more benefits than drawbacks".  A 2023  /Ipsos poll found that 61% of Americans agree, and 22% disagree, that AI poses risks to humanity.  In a 2023   poll, 35% of Americans thought it "very important", and an additional 41% thought it "somewhat important", for the federal government to regulate AI, versus 13% responding "not very important" and 8% responding "not at all important". 
 In November 2023, the first global   was held in   in the UK to discuss the near and far term risks of AI and the possibility of mandatory and voluntary regulatory frameworks.  28 countries including the United States, China, and the European Union issued a declaration at the start of the summit, calling for international co-operation to manage the challenges and risks of artificial intelligence. 
 The study of mechanical or "formal" reasoning began with philosophers and mathematicians in antiquity. The study of logic led directly to  's  , which suggested that a machine, by shuffling symbols as simple as "0" and "1", could simulate any conceivable form of mathematical reasoning.  This, along with concurrent discoveries in  ,   and  , led researchers to consider the possibility of building an "electronic brain".  
They developed several areas of research that would become part of AI, 
such as   and   design for "artificial neurons" in 1943,  and Turing's influential 1950 paper ' ', which introduced the   and showed that "machine intelligence" was plausible. 
 The field of AI research was founded at   at   in 1956.  The attendees became the leaders of AI research in the 1960s.  They and their students produced programs that the press described as "astonishing":  computers were learning   strategies, solving word problems in algebra, proving   and speaking English.  Artificial intelligence laboratories were set up at a number of British and U.S. Universities in the latter 1950s and early 1960s. 
 Researchers in the 1960s and the 1970s were convinced that their methods would eventually succeed in creating a machine with   and considered this the goal of their field.    predicted, "machines will be capable, within twenty years, of doing any work a man can do".    agreed, writing, "within a generation ... the problem of creating 'artificial intelligence' will substantially be solved".  They had, however, underestimated the difficulty of the problem.  In 1974, both the U.S. and British governments cut off exploratory research in response to the   of   and ongoing pressure from the U.S. Congress to  .   's and  's book   was understood as proving that   would never be useful for solving real-world tasks, thus discrediting the approach altogether.  The " ", a period when obtaining funding for AI projects was difficult, followed. 
 In the early 1980s, AI research was revived by the commercial success of  ,  a form of AI program that simulated the knowledge and analytical skills of human experts. By 1985, the market for AI had reached over a billion dollars. At the same time, Japan's   project inspired the U.S. and British governments to restore funding for  .  However, beginning with the collapse of the   market in 1987, AI once again fell into disrepute, and a second, longer-lasting winter began. 
 Up to this point, most of AI's funding had gone to projects which used high level   to represent   like plans, goals, beliefs and known facts. In the 1980s, some researchers began to doubt that this approach would be able to imitate all the processes of human cognition, especially  ,  ,   and  ,  and began to look into "sub-symbolic" approaches.    rejected "representation" in general and focussed directly on engineering machines that move and survive.   ,   and others developed methods that handled incomplete and uncertain information by making reasonable guesses rather than precise logic.  But the most important development was the revival of " ", including neural network research, by   and others.  In 1990,   successfully showed that   can recognize handwritten digits, the first of many successful applications of neural networks. 
 AI gradually restored its reputation in the late 1990s and early 21st century by exploiting formal mathematical methods and by finding specific solutions to specific problems. This " " and "formal" focus allowed researchers to produce verifiable results and collaborate with other fields (such as  ,   and  ).  By 2000, solutions developed by AI researchers were being widely used, although in the 1990s they were rarely described as "artificial intelligence". 
However, several academic researchers became concerned that AI was no longer pursuing its original goal of creating versatile, fully intelligent machines. Beginning around 2002, they founded the subfield of   (or "AGI"), which had several well-funded institutions by the 2010s. 
  began to dominate industry benchmarks in 2012 and was adopted throughout the field. 
For many specific tasks, other methods were abandoned. 
Deep learning's success was based on both hardware improvements ( ,   ,  ) and access to   (including curated datasets,  such as  ). Deep learning's success led to an enormous increase in interest and funding in AI.  The amount of machine learning research (measured by total publications) increased by 50% in the years 2015–2019. 
 In 2016, issues of   and the misuse of technology were catapulted into center stage at machine learning conferences, publications vastly increased, funding became available, and many researchers re-focussed their careers on these issues. The   became a serious field of academic study. 
 In the late teens and early 2020s,   companies began to deliver programs that created enormous interest. In 2015,  , developed by  , beat the world champion  . The program was taught only the rules of the game and developed strategy by itself.   is a   that was released in 2020 by   and is capable of generating high-quality human-like text.  These programs, and others, inspired an aggressive  , where large companies began investing billions in AI research. According to 'AI Impacts', about $50 billion annually was invested in "AI" around 2022 in the U.S. alone and about 20% of the new U.S. Computer Science PhD graduates have specialized in "AI". 
About 800,000 "AI"-related U.S. job openings existed in 2022. 
  wrote in 1950 "I propose to consider the question 'can machines think'?"  He advised changing the question from whether a machine "thinks", to "whether or not it is possible for machinery to show intelligent behaviour".  He devised the Turing test, which measures the ability of a machine to simulate human conversation.  Since we can only observe the behavior of the machine, it does not matter if it is "actually" thinking or literally has a "mind". Turing notes that   but "it is usual to have a polite convention that everyone thinks" 
  and   agree with Turing that intelligence must be defined in terms of external behavior, not internal structure.  However, they are critical that the test requires the machine to imitate humans. "  texts," they wrote, "do not define the goal of their field as making 'machines that fly so exactly like   that they can fool other pigeons. "  AI founder   agreed, writing that "Artificial intelligence is not, by definition, simulation of human intelligence". 
 McCarthy defines intelligence as "the computational part of the ability to achieve goals in the world."  Another AI founder,   similarly describes it as "the ability to solve hard problems".  The leading AI textbook defines it as the study of agents that perceive their environment and take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.  These definitions view intelligence in terms of well-defined problems with well-defined solutions, where both the difficulty of the problem and the performance of the program are direct measures of the "intelligence" of the machine—and no other philosophical discussion is required, or may not even be possible.
 Another definition has been adopted by Google,  a major practitioner in the field of AI. This definition stipulates the ability of systems to synthesize information as the manifestation of intelligence, similar to the way it is defined in biological intelligence.
 No established unifying theory or   has guided AI research for most of its history.  The unprecedented success of statistical machine learning in the 2010s eclipsed all other approaches (so much so that some sources, especially in the business world, use the term "artificial intelligence" to mean "machine learning with neural networks"). This approach is mostly  ,   and  . Critics argue that these questions may have to be revisited by future generations of AI researchers.
  (or " ")  simulated the high-level conscious reasoning that people use when they solve puzzles, express legal reasoning and do mathematics. They were highly successful at "intelligent" tasks such as algebra or IQ tests. In the 1960s, Newell and Simon proposed the  : "A physical symbol system has the necessary and sufficient means of general intelligent action." 
 However, the symbolic approach failed on many tasks that humans solve easily, such as learning, recognizing an object or commonsense reasoning.   is the discovery that high-level "intelligent" tasks were easy for AI, but low level "instinctive" tasks were extremely difficult.  Philosopher   had   since the 1960s that human expertise depends on unconscious instinct rather than conscious symbol manipulation, and on having a "feel" for the situation, rather than explicit symbolic knowledge.  Although his arguments had been ridiculed and ignored when they were first presented, eventually, AI research came to agree with him. 
 The issue is not resolved:   reasoning can make many of the same inscrutable mistakes that human intuition does, such as  . Critics such as   argue continuing research into symbolic AI will still be necessary to attain general intelligence,  in part because sub-symbolic AI is a move away from  : it can be difficult or impossible to understand why a modern statistical AI program made a particular decision. The emerging field of   attempts to bridge the two approaches.
 "Neats" hope that intelligent behavior is described using simple, elegant principles (such as  ,  , or  ). "Scruffies" expect that it necessarily requires solving a large number of unrelated problems. Neats defend their programs with theoretical rigor, scruffies rely mainly on incremental testing to see if they work. This issue was actively discussed in the 1970s and 1980s,  but eventually was seen as irrelevant. Modern AI has elements of both.
 Finding a provably correct or optimal solution is   for many important problems.  Soft computing is a set of techniques, including  ,   and neural networks, that are tolerant of imprecision, uncertainty, partial truth and approximation. Soft computing was introduced in the late 1980s and most successful AI programs in the 21st century are examples of soft computing with neural networks.
 AI researchers are divided as to whether to pursue the goals of artificial general intelligence and   directly or to solve as many specific problems as possible (narrow AI) in hopes these solutions will lead indirectly to the field's long-term goals.  General intelligence is difficult to define and difficult to measure, and modern AI has had more verifiable successes by focusing on specific problems with specific solutions. The experimental sub-field of artificial general intelligence studies this area exclusively.
 The   does not know whether a machine can have a  ,   and  , in the same sense that human beings do. This issue considers the internal experiences of the machine, rather than its external behavior. Mainstream AI research considers this issue irrelevant because it does not affect the goals of the field: to build machines that can solve problems using intelligence.   and   add that "[t]he additional project of making a machine conscious in exactly the way humans are is not one that we are equipped to take on."  However, the question has become central to the philosophy of mind. It is also typically the central question at issue in  .
  identified two problems in understanding the mind, which he named the "hard" and "easy" problems of consciousness.  The easy problem is understanding how the brain processes signals, makes plans and controls behavior. The hard problem is explaining how this   or why it should feel like anything at all, assuming we are right in thinking that it truly does feel like something (Dennett's consciousness illusionism says this is an illusion). Human   is easy to explain, however, human   is difficult to explain. For example, it is easy to imagine a color-blind person who has learned to identify which objects in their field of view are red, but it is not clear what would be required for the person to  . 
 Computationalism is the position in the   that the human mind is an information processing system and that thinking is a form of computing. Computationalism argues that the relationship between mind and body is similar or identical to the relationship between software and hardware and thus may be a solution to the  . This philosophical position was inspired by the work of AI researchers and cognitive scientists in the 1960s and was originally proposed by philosophers   and  . 
 Philosopher   characterized this position as " ": "The appropriately programmed computer with the right inputs and outputs would thereby have a mind in exactly the same sense human beings have minds."  Searle counters this assertion with his Chinese room argument, which attempts to show that, even if a machine perfectly simulates human behavior, there is still no reason to suppose it also has a mind. 
 It is difficult or impossible to reliably evaluate whether an advanced   (has the ability to feel), and if so, to what degree.  But if there is a significant chance that a given machine can feel and suffer, then it may be entitled to certain rights or welfare protection measures, similarly to animals.    (a set of capacities related to high intelligence, such as discernment or  ) may provide another moral basis for AI rights.    are also sometimes proposed as a practical way to integrate autonomous agents into society. 
 In 2017, the European Union considered granting "electronic personhood" to some of the most capable AI systems. Similarly to the legal status of companies, it would have conferred rights but also responsibilities.  Critics argued in 2018 that granting rights to AI systems would downplay the importance of  , and that legislation should focus on user needs rather than speculative futuristic scenarios. They also noted that robots lacked the autonomy to take part to society on their own. 
 Progress in AI increased interest in the topic. Proponents of AI welfare and rights often argue that AI sentience, if it emerges, would be particularly easy to deny. They warn that this may be a   analogous to   or  , which could lead to   if sentient AI is created and carelessly exploited. 
 A   is a hypothetical agent that would possess intelligence far surpassing that of the brightest and most gifted human mind. 
 If research into   produced sufficiently intelligent software, it might be able to  . The improved software would be even better at improving itself, leading to what   called an " " and   called a " ". 
 However, technologies cannot improve exponentially indefinitely, and typically follow an  , slowing when they reach the physical limits of what the technology can do. 
 Robot designer  , cyberneticist  , and inventor   have predicted that humans and machines will merge in the future into   that are more capable and powerful than either. This idea, called transhumanism, has roots in   and  . 
  argues that "artificial intelligence is the next stage in evolution", an idea first proposed by  's " " as far back as 1863, and expanded upon by   in his book of the same name in 1998. 
 Thought-capable artificial beings have appeared as storytelling devices since antiquity,  and have been a persistent theme in  . 
 A common   in these works began with  's  , where a human creation becomes a threat to its masters. This includes such works as   and     (both 1968), with  , the murderous computer in charge of the   spaceship, as well as   (1984) and   (1999). In contrast, the rare loyal robots such as Gort from   (1951) and Bishop from   (1986) are less prominent in popular culture. 
  introduced the   in many books and stories, most notably the "Multivac" series about a super-intelligent computer of the same name. Asimov's laws are often brought up during lay discussions of machine ethics;  while almost all artificial intelligence researchers are familiar with Asimov's laws through popular culture, they generally consider the laws useless for many reasons, one of which is their ambiguity. 
 Several works use AI to force us to confront the fundamental question of what makes us human, showing us artificial beings that have  , and thus to suffer. This appears in  's  , the films   and  , as well as the novel  , by  . Dick considers the idea that our understanding of human subjectivity is altered by technology created with artificial intelligence. 
 The two most widely used textbooks in 2023. (See the  ).
 These were the four of the most widely used AI textbooks in 2008:
 Later editions.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:MyTalk

Content: People on Wikipedia can use this   to post a public message about edits made from the IP address you are currently using.
 Many IP addresses change periodically, and are often shared by several people. You may   or   to avoid future confusion with other logged out users. Creating an account also hides your IP address.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:MyTalk

Content: People on Wikipedia can use this   to post a public message about edits made from the IP address you are currently using.
 Many IP addresses change periodically, and are often shared by several people. You may   or   to avoid future confusion with other logged out users. Creating an account also hides your IP address.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_intelligence

Content: 
  ( ), in its broadest sense, is   exhibited by  , particularly  . It is a   in   that develops and studies methods and software which enable machines to   and uses   and intelligence to take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.  Such machines may be called AIs.
  is widely used  ,  , and science. Some high-profile applications include advanced   (e.g.,  );   (used by  ,  , and  ); interacting   (e.g.,  ,  , and  );   (e.g.,  );   and   tools (e.g.,   and  ); and   play and analysis in   (e.g.,   and  ).  However, many AI applications are not perceived as AI: "A lot of cutting edge AI has filtered into general applications, often without being called AI because once something becomes useful enough and common enough it's  ." 
  was the first person to conduct substantial research in the field that he called machine intelligence.  Artificial intelligence was founded as an academic discipline in 1956.  The field went through multiple cycles of optimism,  followed by periods of disappointment and loss of funding, known as  .  Funding and interest vastly increased after 2012 when   surpassed all previous AI techniques,  and after 2017 with the  .  This led to the   of the early 2020s, with companies, universities, and laboratories overwhelmingly based in the United States pioneering significant  . 
 The growing use of artificial intelligence in the 21st century is influencing   towards increased automation,  , and the   into various economic sectors and areas of life,  ,  , government, industry, and  . This raises questions about  ,  , and  , prompting discussions about   to ensure the  . 
 The various sub-fields of AI research are centered around particular goals and the use of particular tools. The traditional goals of AI research include  ,  ,  ,  ,  , perception, and support for  .   —the ability to complete any task performable by a human on an at least equal level—is among the field's long-term goals. 
 To reach these goals, AI researchers have adapted and integrated a wide range of techniques, including   and  ,  ,  , and methods based on  ,  , and  .  AI also draws upon  ,  ,  ,  , and other fields. 
 The general problem of simulating (or creating) intelligence has been broken into sub-problems. These consist of particular traits or capabilities that researchers expect an intelligent system to display. The traits described below have received the most attention and cover the scope of AI research. 
 Early researchers developed algorithms that imitated step-by-step reasoning that humans use when they solve puzzles or make logical  .  By the late 1980s and 1990s, methods were developed for dealing with   or incomplete information, employing concepts from   and  . 
 Many of these algorithms are insufficient for solving large reasoning problems because they experience a "combinatorial explosion": they became exponentially slower as the problems grew larger.  Even humans rarely use the step-by-step deduction that early AI research could model. They solve most of their problems using fast, intuitive judgments.  Accurate and efficient reasoning is an unsolved problem.
  and   allow AI programs to answer questions intelligently and make deductions about real-world facts. Formal knowledge representations are used in content-based indexing and retrieval,  scene interpretation,  clinical decision support,  knowledge discovery (mining "interesting" and actionable inferences from large  ),  and other areas. 
 A   is a body of knowledge represented in a form that can be used by a program. An   is the set of objects, relations, concepts, and properties used by a particular domain of knowledge.  Knowledge bases need to represent things such as: objects, properties, categories and relations between objects;  situations, events, states and time;  causes and effects;  knowledge about knowledge (what we know about what other people know);    (things that humans assume are true until they are told differently and will remain true even when other facts are changing);  and many other aspects and domains of knowledge.
 Among the most difficult problems in knowledge representation are: the breadth of commonsense knowledge (the set of atomic facts that the average person knows is enormous);  and the sub-symbolic form of most commonsense knowledge (much of what people know is not represented as "facts" or "statements" that they could express verbally).  There is also the difficulty of  , the problem of obtaining knowledge for AI applications. 
 An "agent" is anything that perceives and takes actions in the world. A   has goals or preferences and takes actions to make them happen.  In  , the agent has a specific goal.  In  , the agent has preferences—there are some situations it would prefer to be in, and some situations it is trying to avoid. The decision making agent assigns a number to each situation (called the " ") that measures how much the agent prefers it. For each possible action, it can calculate the " ": the   of all possible outcomes of the action, weighted by the probability that the outcome will occur. It can then choose the action with the maximum expected utility. 
 In  , the agent knows exactly what the effect of any action will be.  In most real-world problems, however, the agent may not be certain about the situation they are in (it is "unknown" or "unobservable") and it may not know for certain what will happen after each possible action (it is not "deterministic"). It must choose an action by making a probabilistic guess and then reassess the situation to see if the action worked. 
 In some problems, the agent's preferences may be uncertain, especially if there are other agents or humans involved. These can be learned (e.g., with  ) or the agent can seek information to improve its preferences.    can be used to weigh the value of exploratory or experimental actions.  The space of possible future actions and situations is typically   large, so the agents must take actions and evaluate situations while being uncertain what the outcome will be.
 A   has a   that describes the probability that a particular action will change the state in a particular way, and a   that supplies the utility of each state and the cost of each action. A   associates a decision with each possible state. The policy could be calculated (e.g., by  ), be  , or it can be learned. 
  describes rational behavior of multiple interacting agents, and is used in AI programs that make decisions that involve other agents. 
  is the study of programs that can improve their performance on a given task automatically.  It has been a part of AI from the beginning. 
 There are several kinds of machine learning.   analyzes a stream of data and finds patterns and makes predictions without any other guidance.    requires a human to label the input data first, and comes in two main varieties:   (where the program must learn to predict what category the input belongs in) and   (where the program must deduce a numeric function based on numeric input). 
 In   the agent is rewarded for good responses and punished for bad ones. The agent learns to choose responses that are classified as "good".    is when the knowledge gained from one problem is applied to a new problem.    is a type of machine learning that runs inputs through biologically inspired   for all of these types of learning. 
  can assess learners by  , by   (how much data is required), or by other notions of  . 
  (NLP)  allows programs to read, write and communicate in human languages such as  . Specific problems include  ,  ,  ,  ,   and  . 
 Early work, based on  's   and  , had difficulty with   unless restricted to small domains called " " (due to the common sense knowledge problem ).   believed that it was meaning and not grammar that was the key to understanding languages, and that   and not dictionaries should be the basis of computational language structure.
 Modern deep learning techniques for NLP include   (representing words, typically as   encoding their meaning),    (a deep learning architecture using an   mechanism),  and others.  In 2019,   (or "GPT") language models began to generate coherent text,  and by 2023 these models were able to get human-level scores on the  ,   test,   test, and many other real-world applications. 
  is the ability to use input from sensors (such as cameras, microphones, wireless signals, active  , sonar, radar, and  ) to deduce aspects of the world.   is the ability to analyze visual input. 
 The field includes  ,   ,   ,  ,  and  . 
  is an interdisciplinary umbrella that comprises systems that recognize, interpret, process or simulate human  .  For example, some   are programmed to speak conversationally or even to banter humorously; it makes them appear more sensitive to the emotional dynamics of human interaction, or to otherwise facilitate  .
 However, this tends to give naïve users an unrealistic conception of the intelligence of existing computer agents.  Moderate successes related to affective computing include textual   and, more recently,  , wherein AI classifies the affects displayed by a videotaped subject. 
 A machine with   should be able to solve a wide variety of problems with breadth and versatility similar to human intelligence. 
 AI research uses a wide variety of techniques to accomplish the goals above. 
 AI can solve many problems by intelligently searching through many possible solutions.  There are two very different kinds of search used in AI:   and  .
  searches through a tree of possible states to try to find a goal state.  For example,   algorithms search through trees of goals and subgoals, attempting to find a path to a target goal, a process called  . 
  are rarely sufficient for most real-world problems: the   (the number of places to search) quickly grows to  . The result is a search that is   or never completes.  " " or "rules of thumb" can help to prioritize choices that are more likely to reach a goal. 
  is used for   programs, such as chess or Go. It searches through a   of possible moves and counter-moves, looking for a winning position. 
  uses   to find a solution to a problem. It begins with some form of guess and refines it incrementally. 
  is a type of local search that optimizes a set of numerical parameters by incrementally adjusting them to minimize a  . Variants of gradient descent are commonly used to train neural networks. 
 Another type of local search is  , which aims to iteratively improve a set of candidate solutions by "mutating" and "recombining" them,   only the fittest to survive each generation. 
 Distributed search processes can coordinate via   algorithms. Two popular swarm algorithms used in search are   (inspired by bird  ) and   (inspired by  ). 
 Formal   is used for   and  . 
Formal logic comes in two main forms:   (which operates on statements that are true or false and uses   such as "and", "or", "not" and "implies")  and   (which also operates on objects, predicates and relations and uses   such as "    is a  " and "There are    s that are  s"). 
  in logic is the process of   a new statement ( ) from other statements that are given and assumed to be true (the  ).  Proofs can be structured as proof  , in which nodes are labelled by sentences, and children nodes are connected to  parent nodes by  .
 Given a problem and a set of premises, problem-solving reduces to searching for a proof tree whose root node is labelled by a solution of the problem and whose leaf nodes are labelled by premises or  . In the case of  , problem-solving search can be performed by reasoning   from the premises or   from the problem.  In the more general case of the clausal form of  ,   is a single, axiom-free rule of inference, in which a problem is solved by proving a contradiction from premises that include the negation of the problem to be solved. 
 Inference in both Horn clause logic and first-order logic is  , and therefore  . However, backward reasoning with Horn clauses, which underpins computation in the   language  , is  . Moreover, its efficiency is competitive with computation in other   languages. 
  assigns a "degree of truth" between 0 and 1. It can therefore handle propositions that are vague and partially true. 
 , including logic programming with  , are designed to handle  . 
Other specialized versions of logic have been developed to describe many complex domains.
 Many problems in AI (including in reasoning, planning, learning, perception, and robotics) require the agent to operate with incomplete or uncertain information. AI researchers have devised a number of tools to solve these problems using methods from   theory and economics.  Precise mathematical tools have been developed that analyze how an agent can make choices and plan, using  ,  ,  and  .  These tools include models such as  ,  dynamic  ,    and  . 
  are a tool that can be used for   (using the   algorithm),    (using the  ),    (using  )  and   (using  ). 
 
Probabilistic algorithms can also be used for filtering, prediction, smoothing and finding explanations for streams of data, helping   systems to analyze processes that occur over time (e.g.,   or  ). The simplest AI applications can be divided into two types: classifiers (e.g., "if shiny then diamond"), on one hand, and controllers (e.g., "if diamond then pick up"), on the other hand.   are functions that use   to determine the closest match. They can be fine-tuned based on chosen examples using  . Each pattern (also called an " ") is labeled with a certain predefined class. All the observations combined with their class labels are known as a  . When a new observation is received, that observation is classified based on previous experience. 
 There are many kinds of classifiers in use. The   is the simplest and most widely used symbolic machine learning algorithm.    algorithm was the most widely used analogical AI until the mid-1990s, and   such as the   (SVM) displaced k-nearest neighbor in the 1990s. 
The   is reportedly the "most widely used learner"  at Google, due in part to its scalability. 
  are also used as classifiers. 
 An artificial neural network is based on a collection of nodes also known as  , which loosely model the   in a biological brain. It is trained to recognise patterns; once trained, it can recognise those patterns in fresh data. There is an input, at least one hidden layer of nodes and an output. Each node applies a function and once the   crosses its specified threshold, the data is transmitted to the next layer. A network is typically called a deep neural network if it has at least 2 hidden layers. 
 Learning algorithms for neural networks use   to choose the weights that will get the right output for each input during training. The most common training technique is the   algorithm. 
Neural networks learn to model complex relationships between inputs and outputs and   in data. In theory, a neural network can learn any function. 
 In   the signal passes in only one direction.    feed the output signal back into the input, which allows short-term memories of previous input events.   is the most successful network architecture for recurrent networks. 
 
use only a single layer of neurons, deep learning  uses multiple layers.
  strengthen the connection between neurons that are "close" to each other—this is especially important in  , where a local set of neurons must   before the network can identify an object. 
 Deep learning 
uses several layers of neurons between the network's inputs and outputs. The multiple layers can progressively extract higher-level features from the raw input. For example, in  , lower layers may identify edges, while higher layers may identify the concepts relevant to a human such as digits or letters or faces. 
 Deep learning has profoundly improved the performance of programs in many important subfields of artificial intelligence, including  ,  ,  ,   and others. The reason that deep learning performs so well in so many applications is not known as of 2023. 
The sudden success of deep learning in 2012–2015 did not occur because of some new discovery or theoretical breakthrough (deep neural networks and backpropagation had been described by many people, as far back as the 1950s) 
but because of two factors: the incredible increase in computer power (including the hundred-fold increase in speed by switching to  ) and the availability of vast amounts of training data, especially the giant   used for benchmark testing, such as  . 
  (GPT) are   that are based on the semantic relationships between words in sentences ( ). Text-based GPT models are pre-trained on a large corpus of text which can be from the internet. The pre-training consists in predicting the next   (a token being usually a word, subword, or punctuation). Throughout this pre-training, GPT models accumulate knowledge about the world, and can then generate human-like text by repeatedly predicting the next token. Typically, a subsequent training phase makes the model more truthful, useful and harmless, usually with a technique called   (RLHF). Current GPT models are still prone to generating falsehoods called " ", although this can be reduced with RLHF and quality data. They are used in  , which allow you to ask a question or request a task in simple text. 
 Current models and services include:   (formerly Bard),  ,  ,  ,   and  .    GPT models can process different types of data ( ) such as images, videos, sound and text. 
 In the late 2010s,   (GPUs) that were increasingly designed with AI-specific enhancements and used with specialized   software, had replaced previously used   (CPUs) as the dominant means for large-scale (commercial and academic)   models' training.  Historically, specialized languages, such as  ,  ,   and others, had been used.
 AI and machine learning technology is used in most of the essential applications of the 2020s, including:   (such as  ),  ,   (offered by  ,   or  ), driving  ,   ( ,  ),   (such as   or  ),   (including  ,   and  ),   ( ,  ),   ( 's   or  's   and  's  ) and   (used by  , Apple's   and  ).
 The application of AI in   and   has the potential to increase patient care and quality of life.  Through the lens of the  , medical professionals are ethically compelled to use AI, if applications can more accurately diagnose and treat patients.
 For medical research, AI is an important tool for processing and integrating  . This is particularly important for   and   development which use   imaging as a key technique in fabrication.  It has been suggested that AI can overcome discrepancies in funding allocated to different fields of research.  New AI tools can deepen the understanding of biomedically relevant pathways. For example,   (2021) demonstrated the ability to approximate, in hours rather than months, the 3D  .  In 2023, it was reported that AI-guided drug discovery helped find a class of antibiotics capable of killing two different types of drug-resistant bacteria.  In 2024, researchers used machine learning to accelerate the search for   drug treatments. Their aim was to identify compounds that block the clumping, or aggregation, of   (the protein that characterises Parkinson's disease). They were able to speed up the initial screening process ten-fold, and to reduce the cost by a thousand-fold. 
  programs have been used since the 1950s to demonstrate and test AI's most advanced techniques.    became the first computer chess-playing system to beat a reigning world chess champion,  , on 11 May 1997.  In 2011, in a     exhibition match,  's  ,  , defeated the two greatest   champions,   and  , by a significant margin.  In March 2016,   won 4 out of 5 games of   in a match with Go champion  , becoming the first  -playing system to beat a professional Go player without  . Then in 2017 it  , who was the best Go player in the world.  Other programs handle   games, such as the  -playing program  .    developed increasingly generalistic   models, such as with  , which could be trained to play chess, Go, or   games.  In 2019, DeepMind's AlphaStar achieved grandmaster level in  , a particularly challenging real-time strategy game that involves incomplete knowledge of what happens on the map.  In 2021, an AI agent competed in a PlayStation Gran Turismo competition, winning against four of the world's best Gran Turismo drivers using deep reinforcement learning. 
 Various countries are deploying AI military applications.  The main applications enhance  , communications, sensors, integration and interoperability.  Research is targeting intelligence collection and analysis, logistics, cyber operations, information operations, and semiautonomous and  .  AI technologies enable coordination of sensors and effectors, threat detection and identification, marking of enemy positions,  , coordination and deconfliction of distributed   between networked combat vehicles involving manned and unmanned teams.  AI was incorporated into military operations in Iraq and Syria. 
 In November 2023, US Vice President   disclosed a declaration signed by 31 nations to set guardrails for the military use of AI. The commitments include using legal reviews to ensure the compliance of military AI with international laws, and being cautious and transparent in the development of this technology. 
 In the early 2020s,   gained widespread prominence. In March 2023, 58% of U.S. adults had heard about   and 14% had tried it.  The increasing realism and ease-of-use of AI-based   generators such as  ,  , and   sparked a trend of   AI-generated photos. Widespread attention was gained by a fake photo of   wearing a white puffer coat, the fictional arrest of  , and a hoax of an attack on the  , as well as the usage in professional creative arts. 
 There are also thousands of successful AI applications used to solve specific problems for specific industries or institutions. In a 2017 survey, one in five companies reported they had incorporated "AI" in some offerings or processes.  A few examples are  , medical diagnosis, military logistics, applications that predict the result of judicial decisions,  , or supply chain management.
 In agriculture, AI has helped farmers identify areas that need irrigation, fertilization, pesticide treatments or increasing yield. Agronomists use AI to conduct research and development. AI has been used to predict the ripening time for crops such as tomatoes, monitor soil moisture, operate agricultural robots, conduct predictive analytics, classify livestock pig call emotions, automate greenhouses, detect diseases and pests, and save water.
 Artificial intelligence is used in astronomy to analyze increasing amounts of available data and applications, mainly for "classification, regression, clustering, forecasting, generation, discovery, and the development of new scientific insights" for example for discovering exoplanets, forecasting solar activity, and distinguishing between signals and instrumental effects in gravitational wave astronomy. It could also be used for activities in space such as space exploration, including analysis of data from space missions, real-time science decisions of spacecraft, space debris avoidance, and more autonomous operation.
 AI has potential benefits and potential risks. AI may be able to advance science and find solutions for serious problems:   of   hopes to "solve intelligence, and then use that to solve everything else".  However, as the use of AI has become widespread, several unintended consequences and risks have been identified.  In-production systems can sometimes not factor ethics and bias into their AI training processes, especially when the AI algorithms are inherently unexplainable in deep learning. 
 Machine-learning algorithms require large amounts of data. The techniques used to acquire this data have raised concerns about  ,   and  .
 Technology companies collect a wide range of data from their users, including online activity, geolocation data, video and audio. 
For example, in order to build   algorithms,   has recorded millions of private conversations and allowed   to listen to and transcribe some of them.  Opinions about this widespread   range from those who see it as a   to those for whom it is clearly   and a violation of the  . 
 AI developers argue that this is the only way to deliver valuable applications. and have developed several techniques that attempt to preserve privacy while still obtaining the data, such as  ,   and  .  Since 2016, some privacy experts, such as  , have begun to view privacy in terms of  .   wrote that experts have pivoted "from the question of 'what they know' to the question of 'what they're doing with it'." 
 Generative AI is often trained on unlicensed copyrighted works, including in domains such as images or computer code; the output is then used under the rationale of " ". Website owners who do not wish to have their copyrighted content AI-indexed or 'scraped' can add code to their site if they do not want their website to be indexed by a search engine, which is currently available through certain services such as  . Experts disagree about how well and under what circumstances this rationale will hold up in courts of law; relevant factors may include "the purpose and character of the use of the copyrighted work" and "the effect upon the potential market for the copyrighted work".  In 2023, leading authors (including   and  ) sued AI companies for using their work to train generative AI. 
 ,   and others use   to guide users to more content. These AI programs were given the goal of   user engagement (that is, the only goal was to keep people watching). The AI learned that users tended to choose  ,  , and extreme   content, and, to keep them watching, the AI recommended more of it. Users also tended to watch more content on the same subject, so the AI led people into   where they received multiple versions of the same misinformation.  This convinced many users that the misinformation was true, and ultimately undermined trust in institutions, the media and the government.  The AI program had correctly learned to maximize its goal, but the result was harmful to society. After the U.S. election in 2016, major technology companies took steps to mitigate the problem.
 In 2022,   began to create images, audio, video and text that are indistinguishable from real photographs, recordings, films or human writing. It is possible for bad actors to use this technology to create massive amounts of misinformation or propaganda.  AI pioneer   expressed concern about AI enabling "authoritarian leaders to manipulate their electorates" on a large scale, among other risks. 
 Machine learning applications will be biased if they learn from biased data.  The developers may not be aware that the bias exists. 
Bias can be introduced by the way   is selected and by the way a model is deployed.  If a biased algorithm is used to make decisions that can seriously   people (as it can in  ,  ,  ,   or  ) then the algorithm may cause  . 
  in machine learning is the study of how to prevent the harm caused by algorithmic bias. It has become serious area of academic study within AI. Researchers have discovered it is not always possible to define "fairness" in a way that satisfies all stakeholders. 
 On June 28, 2015,  's new image labeling feature mistakenly identified Jacky Alcine and a friend as "gorillas" because they were black. The system was trained on a dataset that contained very few images of black people,  a problem called "sample size disparity".  Google "fixed" this problem by preventing the system from labelling   as a "gorilla". Eight years later, in 2023, Google Photos still could not identify a gorilla, and neither could similar products from Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Amazon. 
  is a commercial program widely used by   to assess the likelihood of a   becoming a  .
In 2016,   at   discovered that COMPAS exhibited racial bias, despite the fact that the program was not told the races of the defendants. Although the error rate for both whites and blacks was calibrated equal at exactly 61%, the errors for each race were different—the system consistently overestimated the chance that a black person would re-offend and would underestimate the chance that a white person would not re-offend.  In 2017, several researchers  showed that it was mathematically impossible for COMPAS to accommodate all possible measures of fairness when the base rates of re-offense were different for whites and blacks in the data. 
 A program can make biased decisions even if the data does not explicitly mention a problematic feature (such as "race" or "gender"). The feature will correlate with other features (like "address", "shopping history" or "first name"), and the program will make the same decisions based on these features as it would on "race" or "gender". 
Moritz Hardt said "the most robust fact in this research area is that fairness through blindness doesn't work." 
 Criticism of COMPAS highlighted that machine learning models are designed to make "predictions" that are only valid if we assume that the future will resemble the past. If they are trained on data that includes the results of racist decisions in the past, machine learning models must predict that racist decisions will be made in the future. If an application then uses these predictions as  , some of these "recommendations" will likely be racist.  Thus, machine learning is not well suited to help make decisions in areas where there is hope that the future will be   than the past. It is necessarily descriptive and not proscriptive. 
 Bias and unfairness may go undetected because the developers are overwhelmingly white and male: among AI engineers, about 4% are black and 20% are women. 
 At its 2022   (ACM FAccT 2022), the  , in Seoul, South Korea, presented and published findings that recommend that until AI and robotics systems are demonstrated to be free of bias mistakes, they are unsafe, and the use of self-learning neural networks trained on vast, unregulated sources of flawed internet data should be curtailed. 
 Many AI systems are so complex that their designers cannot explain how they reach their decisions.  Particularly with  , in which there are a large amount of non-  relationships between inputs and outputs. But some popular explainability techniques exist. 
 It is impossible to be certain that a program is operating correctly if no one knows how exactly it works. There have been many cases where a machine learning program passed rigorous tests, but nevertheless learned something different than what the programmers intended. For example, a system that could identify skin diseases better than medical professionals was found to actually have a strong tendency to classify images with a   as "cancerous", because pictures of malignancies typically include a ruler to show the scale.  Another machine learning system designed to help effectively allocate medical resources was found to classify patients with asthma as being at "low risk" of dying from pneumonia. Having asthma is actually a severe risk factor, but since the patients having asthma would usually get much more medical care, they were relatively unlikely to die according to the training data. The correlation between asthma and low risk of dying from pneumonia was real, but misleading. 
 People who have been harmed by an algorithm's decision have a right to an explanation.  Doctors, for example, are expected to clearly and completely explain to their colleagues the reasoning behind any decision they make. Early drafts of the European Union's   in 2016 included an explicit statement that this right exists.  Industry experts noted that this is an unsolved problem with no solution in sight. Regulators argued that nevertheless the harm is real: if the problem has no solution, the tools should not be used. 
  established the   ("Explainable Artificial Intelligence") program in 2014 to try and solve these problems.  
 There are several possible solutions to the transparency problem. SHAP tried to solve the transparency problems by visualising the contribution of each feature to the output.  LIME can locally approximate a model with a simpler, interpretable model.    provides a large number of outputs in addition to the target classification. These other outputs can help developers deduce what the network has learned.   ,   and other   methods can allow developers to see what different layers of a deep network have learned and produce output that can suggest what the network is learning. 
 Artificial intelligence provides a number of tools that are useful to  , such as  ,  ,   or  .
 A lethal autonomous weapon is a machine that locates, selects and engages human targets without human supervision.  Widely available AI tools can be used by bad actors to develop inexpensive autonomous weapons and, if produced at scale, they are potentially  .  Even when used in conventional warfare, it is unlikely that they will be unable to reliably choose targets and could potentially  .  In 2014, 30 nations (including China) supported a ban on autonomous weapons under the  '  , however the   and others disagreed.  By 2015, over fifty countries were reported to be researching battlefield robots. 
 AI tools make it easier for   to efficiently control their citizens in several ways.   and   allow widespread  .  , operating this data, can   potential enemies of the state and prevent them from hiding.   can precisely target   and   for maximum effect.   and   aid in producing misinformation. Advanced AI can make authoritarian   more competitive than liberal and decentralized systems such as  . It lowers the cost and difficulty of   and  .  All these technologies have been available since 2020 or earlier—AI   are already being used for   in China. 
 There many other ways that AI is expected to help bad actors, some of which can not be foreseen. For example, machine-learning AI is able to design tens of thousands of toxic molecules in a matter of hours. 
 Training AI systems requires an enormous amount of computing power. Usually only   companies have the financial resources to make such investments. Smaller startups such as   and   end up buying access to   from   and   respectively. 
 Economists have frequently highlighted the risks of redundancies from AI, and speculated about unemployment if there is no adequate social policy for full employment. 
 In the past, technology has tended to increase rather than reduce total employment, but economists acknowledge that "we're in uncharted territory" with AI.  A survey of economists showed disagreement about whether the increasing use of robots and AI will cause a substantial increase in long-term  , but they generally agree that it could be a net benefit if   gains are  .  Risk estimates vary; for example, in the 2010s, Michael Osborne and   estimated 47% of U.S. jobs are at "high risk" of potential automation, while an OECD report classified only 9% of U.S. jobs as "high risk".  The methodology of speculating about future employment levels has been criticised as lacking evidential foundation, and for implying that technology, rather than social policy, creates unemployment, as opposed to redundancies.  In April 2023, it was reported that 70% of the jobs for Chinese video game illustrators had been eliminated by generative artificial intelligence. 
 Unlike previous waves of automation, many middle-class jobs may be eliminated by artificial intelligence;   stated in 2015 that "the worry that AI could do to white-collar jobs what steam power did to blue-collar ones during the Industrial Revolution" is "worth taking seriously".  Jobs at extreme risk range from   to fast food cooks, while job demand is likely to increase for care-related professions ranging from personal healthcare to the clergy. 
 From the early days of the development of artificial intelligence, there have been arguments, for example, those put forward by  , about whether tasks that can be done by computers actually should be done by them, given the difference between computers and humans, and between quantitative calculation and qualitative, value-based judgement. 
 It has been argued AI will become so powerful that humanity may irreversibly lose control of it. This could, as physicist   stated, " ".  This scenario has been common in science fiction, when a computer or robot suddenly develops a human-like "self-awareness" (or "sentience" or "consciousness") and becomes a malevolent character.  These sci-fi scenarios are misleading in several ways.
 First, AI does not require human-like " " to be an existential risk. Modern AI programs are given specific goals and use learning and intelligence to achieve them. Philosopher   argued that if one gives   goal to a sufficiently powerful AI, it may choose to destroy humanity to achieve it (he used the example of a  ).    gives the example of household robot that tries to find a way to kill its owner to prevent it from being unplugged, reasoning that "you can't fetch the coffee if you're dead."  In order to be safe for humanity, a   would have to be genuinely   with humanity's morality and values so that it is "fundamentally on our side". 
 Second,   argues that AI does not require a robot body or physical control to pose an existential risk. The essential parts of civilization are not physical. Things like  ,  ,  ,   and the   are made of  ; they exist because there are stories that billions of people believe. The current prevalence of   suggests that an AI could use language to convince people to believe anything, even to take actions that are destructive. 
 The opinions amongst experts and industry insiders are mixed, with sizable fractions both concerned and unconcerned by risk from eventual superintelligent AI.  Personalities such as  ,  , and   have expressed concern about existential risk from AI. 
AI pioneers including  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and   have expressed concerns about the risks of AI. In 2023, many leading AI experts issued the joint statement that "Mitigating the risk of extinction from AI should be a global priority alongside other societal-scale risks such as pandemics and nuclear war". 
 Other researchers, however, spoke in favor of a less dystopian view. AI pioneer   did not sign the joint statement, emphasising that in 95% of all cases, AI research is about making "human lives longer and healthier and easier."  While the tools that are now being used to improve lives can also be used by bad actors, "they can also be used against the bad actors."    also argued that "it's a mistake to fall for the doomsday hype on AI—and that regulators who do will only benefit vested interests."    "scoffs at his peers' dystopian scenarios of supercharged misinformation and even, eventually, human extinction."  In the early 2010s, experts argued that the risks are too distant in the future to warrant research or that humans will be valuable from the perspective of a superintelligent machine.  However, after 2016, the study of current and future risks and possible solutions became a serious area of research. 
 Friendly AI are machines that have been designed from the beginning to minimize risks and to make choices that benefit humans.  , who coined the term, argues that developing friendly AI should be a higher research priority: it may require a large investment and it must be completed before AI becomes an existential risk. 
 Machines with intelligence have the potential to use their intelligence to make ethical decisions. The field of machine ethics provides machines with ethical principles and procedures for resolving ethical dilemmas. 
The field of machine ethics is also called computational morality, 
and was founded at an   symposium in 2005. 
 Other approaches include  's "artificial moral agents"  and  's   for developing provably beneficial machines. 
 Active organizations in the AI open-source community include  ,   ,    and  .  Various AI models, such as  ,   or  , have been made open-weight,  meaning that their architecture and trained parameters (the "weights") are publicly available. Open-weight models can be freely  , which allows companies to specialize them with their own data and for their own use-case.  Open-weight models are useful for research and innovation, but can also be misused. Since they can be fine-tuned, any built-in security measure, such as objecting to harmful requests, can be trained away until it becomes ineffective. Some researchers warn that future AI models may develop dangerous capabilities (such as the potential to drastically facilitate  ), and that once released on the Internet, they can't be deleted everywhere if needed. They recommend pre-release audits and cost-benefit analyses. 
 Artificial Intelligence projects can have their ethical permissibility tested while designing, developing, and implementing an AI system. An AI framework such as the Care and Act Framework containing the SUM values—developed by the   tests projects in four main areas: 
 Other developments in ethical frameworks include those decided upon during the  , the Montreal Declaration for Responsible AI, and the IEEE's Ethics of Autonomous Systems initiative, among others;  however, these principles do not go without their criticisms, especially regards to the people chosen contributes to these frameworks. 
 Promotion of the wellbeing of the people and communities that these technologies affect requires consideration of the social and ethical implications at all stages of AI system design, development and implementation, and collaboration between job roles such as data scientists, product managers, data engineers, domain experts, and delivery managers. 
 The regulation of artificial intelligence is the development of public sector policies and laws for promoting and regulating artificial intelligence (AI); it is therefore related to the broader regulation of algorithms.  The regulatory and policy landscape for AI is an emerging issue in jurisdictions globally.  According to AI Index at  , the annual number of AI-related laws passed in the 127 survey countries jumped from one passed in 2016 to 37 passed in 2022 alone.  Between 2016 and 2020, more than 30 countries adopted dedicated strategies for AI.  Most EU member states had released national AI strategies, as had Canada, China, India, Japan, Mauritius, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, U.S., and Vietnam. Others were in the process of elaborating their own AI strategy, including Bangladesh, Malaysia and Tunisia.  The   was launched in June 2020, stating a need for AI to be developed in accordance with human rights and democratic values, to ensure public confidence and trust in the technology.   ,  , and   published a joint statement in November 2021 calling for a government commission to regulate AI.  In 2023, OpenAI leaders published recommendations for the governance of superintelligence, which they believe may happen in less than 10 years.  In 2023, the United Nations also launched an advisory body to provide recommendations on AI governance; the body comprises technology company executives, governments officials and academics. 
 In a 2022   survey, attitudes towards AI varied greatly by country; 78% of Chinese citizens, but only 35% of Americans, agreed that "products and services using AI have more benefits than drawbacks".  A 2023  /Ipsos poll found that 61% of Americans agree, and 22% disagree, that AI poses risks to humanity.  In a 2023   poll, 35% of Americans thought it "very important", and an additional 41% thought it "somewhat important", for the federal government to regulate AI, versus 13% responding "not very important" and 8% responding "not at all important". 
 In November 2023, the first global   was held in   in the UK to discuss the near and far term risks of AI and the possibility of mandatory and voluntary regulatory frameworks.  28 countries including the United States, China, and the European Union issued a declaration at the start of the summit, calling for international co-operation to manage the challenges and risks of artificial intelligence. 
 The study of mechanical or "formal" reasoning began with philosophers and mathematicians in antiquity. The study of logic led directly to  's  , which suggested that a machine, by shuffling symbols as simple as "0" and "1", could simulate any conceivable form of mathematical reasoning.  This, along with concurrent discoveries in  ,   and  , led researchers to consider the possibility of building an "electronic brain".  
They developed several areas of research that would become part of AI, 
such as   and   design for "artificial neurons" in 1943,  and Turing's influential 1950 paper ' ', which introduced the   and showed that "machine intelligence" was plausible. 
 The field of AI research was founded at   at   in 1956.  The attendees became the leaders of AI research in the 1960s.  They and their students produced programs that the press described as "astonishing":  computers were learning   strategies, solving word problems in algebra, proving   and speaking English.  Artificial intelligence laboratories were set up at a number of British and U.S. Universities in the latter 1950s and early 1960s. 
 Researchers in the 1960s and the 1970s were convinced that their methods would eventually succeed in creating a machine with   and considered this the goal of their field.    predicted, "machines will be capable, within twenty years, of doing any work a man can do".    agreed, writing, "within a generation ... the problem of creating 'artificial intelligence' will substantially be solved".  They had, however, underestimated the difficulty of the problem.  In 1974, both the U.S. and British governments cut off exploratory research in response to the   of   and ongoing pressure from the U.S. Congress to  .   's and  's book   was understood as proving that   would never be useful for solving real-world tasks, thus discrediting the approach altogether.  The " ", a period when obtaining funding for AI projects was difficult, followed. 
 In the early 1980s, AI research was revived by the commercial success of  ,  a form of AI program that simulated the knowledge and analytical skills of human experts. By 1985, the market for AI had reached over a billion dollars. At the same time, Japan's   project inspired the U.S. and British governments to restore funding for  .  However, beginning with the collapse of the   market in 1987, AI once again fell into disrepute, and a second, longer-lasting winter began. 
 Up to this point, most of AI's funding had gone to projects which used high level   to represent   like plans, goals, beliefs and known facts. In the 1980s, some researchers began to doubt that this approach would be able to imitate all the processes of human cognition, especially  ,  ,   and  ,  and began to look into "sub-symbolic" approaches.    rejected "representation" in general and focussed directly on engineering machines that move and survive.   ,   and others developed methods that handled incomplete and uncertain information by making reasonable guesses rather than precise logic.  But the most important development was the revival of " ", including neural network research, by   and others.  In 1990,   successfully showed that   can recognize handwritten digits, the first of many successful applications of neural networks. 
 AI gradually restored its reputation in the late 1990s and early 21st century by exploiting formal mathematical methods and by finding specific solutions to specific problems. This " " and "formal" focus allowed researchers to produce verifiable results and collaborate with other fields (such as  ,   and  ).  By 2000, solutions developed by AI researchers were being widely used, although in the 1990s they were rarely described as "artificial intelligence". 
However, several academic researchers became concerned that AI was no longer pursuing its original goal of creating versatile, fully intelligent machines. Beginning around 2002, they founded the subfield of   (or "AGI"), which had several well-funded institutions by the 2010s. 
  began to dominate industry benchmarks in 2012 and was adopted throughout the field. 
For many specific tasks, other methods were abandoned. 
Deep learning's success was based on both hardware improvements ( ,   ,  ) and access to   (including curated datasets,  such as  ). Deep learning's success led to an enormous increase in interest and funding in AI.  The amount of machine learning research (measured by total publications) increased by 50% in the years 2015–2019. 
 In 2016, issues of   and the misuse of technology were catapulted into center stage at machine learning conferences, publications vastly increased, funding became available, and many researchers re-focussed their careers on these issues. The   became a serious field of academic study. 
 In the late teens and early 2020s,   companies began to deliver programs that created enormous interest. In 2015,  , developed by  , beat the world champion  . The program was taught only the rules of the game and developed strategy by itself.   is a   that was released in 2020 by   and is capable of generating high-quality human-like text.  These programs, and others, inspired an aggressive  , where large companies began investing billions in AI research. According to 'AI Impacts', about $50 billion annually was invested in "AI" around 2022 in the U.S. alone and about 20% of the new U.S. Computer Science PhD graduates have specialized in "AI". 
About 800,000 "AI"-related U.S. job openings existed in 2022. 
  wrote in 1950 "I propose to consider the question 'can machines think'?"  He advised changing the question from whether a machine "thinks", to "whether or not it is possible for machinery to show intelligent behaviour".  He devised the Turing test, which measures the ability of a machine to simulate human conversation.  Since we can only observe the behavior of the machine, it does not matter if it is "actually" thinking or literally has a "mind". Turing notes that   but "it is usual to have a polite convention that everyone thinks" 
  and   agree with Turing that intelligence must be defined in terms of external behavior, not internal structure.  However, they are critical that the test requires the machine to imitate humans. "  texts," they wrote, "do not define the goal of their field as making 'machines that fly so exactly like   that they can fool other pigeons. "  AI founder   agreed, writing that "Artificial intelligence is not, by definition, simulation of human intelligence". 
 McCarthy defines intelligence as "the computational part of the ability to achieve goals in the world."  Another AI founder,   similarly describes it as "the ability to solve hard problems".  The leading AI textbook defines it as the study of agents that perceive their environment and take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.  These definitions view intelligence in terms of well-defined problems with well-defined solutions, where both the difficulty of the problem and the performance of the program are direct measures of the "intelligence" of the machine—and no other philosophical discussion is required, or may not even be possible.
 Another definition has been adopted by Google,  a major practitioner in the field of AI. This definition stipulates the ability of systems to synthesize information as the manifestation of intelligence, similar to the way it is defined in biological intelligence.
 No established unifying theory or   has guided AI research for most of its history.  The unprecedented success of statistical machine learning in the 2010s eclipsed all other approaches (so much so that some sources, especially in the business world, use the term "artificial intelligence" to mean "machine learning with neural networks"). This approach is mostly  ,   and  . Critics argue that these questions may have to be revisited by future generations of AI researchers.
  (or " ")  simulated the high-level conscious reasoning that people use when they solve puzzles, express legal reasoning and do mathematics. They were highly successful at "intelligent" tasks such as algebra or IQ tests. In the 1960s, Newell and Simon proposed the  : "A physical symbol system has the necessary and sufficient means of general intelligent action." 
 However, the symbolic approach failed on many tasks that humans solve easily, such as learning, recognizing an object or commonsense reasoning.   is the discovery that high-level "intelligent" tasks were easy for AI, but low level "instinctive" tasks were extremely difficult.  Philosopher   had   since the 1960s that human expertise depends on unconscious instinct rather than conscious symbol manipulation, and on having a "feel" for the situation, rather than explicit symbolic knowledge.  Although his arguments had been ridiculed and ignored when they were first presented, eventually, AI research came to agree with him. 
 The issue is not resolved:   reasoning can make many of the same inscrutable mistakes that human intuition does, such as  . Critics such as   argue continuing research into symbolic AI will still be necessary to attain general intelligence,  in part because sub-symbolic AI is a move away from  : it can be difficult or impossible to understand why a modern statistical AI program made a particular decision. The emerging field of   attempts to bridge the two approaches.
 "Neats" hope that intelligent behavior is described using simple, elegant principles (such as  ,  , or  ). "Scruffies" expect that it necessarily requires solving a large number of unrelated problems. Neats defend their programs with theoretical rigor, scruffies rely mainly on incremental testing to see if they work. This issue was actively discussed in the 1970s and 1980s,  but eventually was seen as irrelevant. Modern AI has elements of both.
 Finding a provably correct or optimal solution is   for many important problems.  Soft computing is a set of techniques, including  ,   and neural networks, that are tolerant of imprecision, uncertainty, partial truth and approximation. Soft computing was introduced in the late 1980s and most successful AI programs in the 21st century are examples of soft computing with neural networks.
 AI researchers are divided as to whether to pursue the goals of artificial general intelligence and   directly or to solve as many specific problems as possible (narrow AI) in hopes these solutions will lead indirectly to the field's long-term goals.  General intelligence is difficult to define and difficult to measure, and modern AI has had more verifiable successes by focusing on specific problems with specific solutions. The experimental sub-field of artificial general intelligence studies this area exclusively.
 The   does not know whether a machine can have a  ,   and  , in the same sense that human beings do. This issue considers the internal experiences of the machine, rather than its external behavior. Mainstream AI research considers this issue irrelevant because it does not affect the goals of the field: to build machines that can solve problems using intelligence.   and   add that "[t]he additional project of making a machine conscious in exactly the way humans are is not one that we are equipped to take on."  However, the question has become central to the philosophy of mind. It is also typically the central question at issue in  .
  identified two problems in understanding the mind, which he named the "hard" and "easy" problems of consciousness.  The easy problem is understanding how the brain processes signals, makes plans and controls behavior. The hard problem is explaining how this   or why it should feel like anything at all, assuming we are right in thinking that it truly does feel like something (Dennett's consciousness illusionism says this is an illusion). Human   is easy to explain, however, human   is difficult to explain. For example, it is easy to imagine a color-blind person who has learned to identify which objects in their field of view are red, but it is not clear what would be required for the person to  . 
 Computationalism is the position in the   that the human mind is an information processing system and that thinking is a form of computing. Computationalism argues that the relationship between mind and body is similar or identical to the relationship between software and hardware and thus may be a solution to the  . This philosophical position was inspired by the work of AI researchers and cognitive scientists in the 1960s and was originally proposed by philosophers   and  . 
 Philosopher   characterized this position as " ": "The appropriately programmed computer with the right inputs and outputs would thereby have a mind in exactly the same sense human beings have minds."  Searle counters this assertion with his Chinese room argument, which attempts to show that, even if a machine perfectly simulates human behavior, there is still no reason to suppose it also has a mind. 
 It is difficult or impossible to reliably evaluate whether an advanced   (has the ability to feel), and if so, to what degree.  But if there is a significant chance that a given machine can feel and suffer, then it may be entitled to certain rights or welfare protection measures, similarly to animals.    (a set of capacities related to high intelligence, such as discernment or  ) may provide another moral basis for AI rights.    are also sometimes proposed as a practical way to integrate autonomous agents into society. 
 In 2017, the European Union considered granting "electronic personhood" to some of the most capable AI systems. Similarly to the legal status of companies, it would have conferred rights but also responsibilities.  Critics argued in 2018 that granting rights to AI systems would downplay the importance of  , and that legislation should focus on user needs rather than speculative futuristic scenarios. They also noted that robots lacked the autonomy to take part to society on their own. 
 Progress in AI increased interest in the topic. Proponents of AI welfare and rights often argue that AI sentience, if it emerges, would be particularly easy to deny. They warn that this may be a   analogous to   or  , which could lead to   if sentient AI is created and carelessly exploited. 
 A   is a hypothetical agent that would possess intelligence far surpassing that of the brightest and most gifted human mind. 
 If research into   produced sufficiently intelligent software, it might be able to  . The improved software would be even better at improving itself, leading to what   called an " " and   called a " ". 
 However, technologies cannot improve exponentially indefinitely, and typically follow an  , slowing when they reach the physical limits of what the technology can do. 
 Robot designer  , cyberneticist  , and inventor   have predicted that humans and machines will merge in the future into   that are more capable and powerful than either. This idea, called transhumanism, has roots in   and  . 
  argues that "artificial intelligence is the next stage in evolution", an idea first proposed by  's " " as far back as 1863, and expanded upon by   in his book of the same name in 1998. 
 Thought-capable artificial beings have appeared as storytelling devices since antiquity,  and have been a persistent theme in  . 
 A common   in these works began with  's  , where a human creation becomes a threat to its masters. This includes such works as   and     (both 1968), with  , the murderous computer in charge of the   spaceship, as well as   (1984) and   (1999). In contrast, the rare loyal robots such as Gort from   (1951) and Bishop from   (1986) are less prominent in popular culture. 
  introduced the   in many books and stories, most notably the "Multivac" series about a super-intelligent computer of the same name. Asimov's laws are often brought up during lay discussions of machine ethics;  while almost all artificial intelligence researchers are familiar with Asimov's laws through popular culture, they generally consider the laws useless for many reasons, one of which is their ambiguity. 
 Several works use AI to force us to confront the fundamental question of what makes us human, showing us artificial beings that have  , and thus to suffer. This appears in  's  , the films   and  , as well as the novel  , by  . Dick considers the idea that our understanding of human subjectivity is altered by technology created with artificial intelligence. 
 The two most widely used textbooks in 2023. (See the  ).
 These were the four of the most widely used AI textbooks in 2008:
 Later editions.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_intelligence

Content: 
  ( ), in its broadest sense, is   exhibited by  , particularly  . It is a   in   that develops and studies methods and software which enable machines to   and uses   and intelligence to take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.  Such machines may be called AIs.
  is widely used  ,  , and science. Some high-profile applications include advanced   (e.g.,  );   (used by  ,  , and  ); interacting   (e.g.,  ,  , and  );   (e.g.,  );   and   tools (e.g.,   and  ); and   play and analysis in   (e.g.,   and  ).  However, many AI applications are not perceived as AI: "A lot of cutting edge AI has filtered into general applications, often without being called AI because once something becomes useful enough and common enough it's  ." 
  was the first person to conduct substantial research in the field that he called machine intelligence.  Artificial intelligence was founded as an academic discipline in 1956.  The field went through multiple cycles of optimism,  followed by periods of disappointment and loss of funding, known as  .  Funding and interest vastly increased after 2012 when   surpassed all previous AI techniques,  and after 2017 with the  .  This led to the   of the early 2020s, with companies, universities, and laboratories overwhelmingly based in the United States pioneering significant  . 
 The growing use of artificial intelligence in the 21st century is influencing   towards increased automation,  , and the   into various economic sectors and areas of life,  ,  , government, industry, and  . This raises questions about  ,  , and  , prompting discussions about   to ensure the  . 
 The various sub-fields of AI research are centered around particular goals and the use of particular tools. The traditional goals of AI research include  ,  ,  ,  ,  , perception, and support for  .   —the ability to complete any task performable by a human on an at least equal level—is among the field's long-term goals. 
 To reach these goals, AI researchers have adapted and integrated a wide range of techniques, including   and  ,  ,  , and methods based on  ,  , and  .  AI also draws upon  ,  ,  ,  , and other fields. 
 The general problem of simulating (or creating) intelligence has been broken into sub-problems. These consist of particular traits or capabilities that researchers expect an intelligent system to display. The traits described below have received the most attention and cover the scope of AI research. 
 Early researchers developed algorithms that imitated step-by-step reasoning that humans use when they solve puzzles or make logical  .  By the late 1980s and 1990s, methods were developed for dealing with   or incomplete information, employing concepts from   and  . 
 Many of these algorithms are insufficient for solving large reasoning problems because they experience a "combinatorial explosion": they became exponentially slower as the problems grew larger.  Even humans rarely use the step-by-step deduction that early AI research could model. They solve most of their problems using fast, intuitive judgments.  Accurate and efficient reasoning is an unsolved problem.
  and   allow AI programs to answer questions intelligently and make deductions about real-world facts. Formal knowledge representations are used in content-based indexing and retrieval,  scene interpretation,  clinical decision support,  knowledge discovery (mining "interesting" and actionable inferences from large  ),  and other areas. 
 A   is a body of knowledge represented in a form that can be used by a program. An   is the set of objects, relations, concepts, and properties used by a particular domain of knowledge.  Knowledge bases need to represent things such as: objects, properties, categories and relations between objects;  situations, events, states and time;  causes and effects;  knowledge about knowledge (what we know about what other people know);    (things that humans assume are true until they are told differently and will remain true even when other facts are changing);  and many other aspects and domains of knowledge.
 Among the most difficult problems in knowledge representation are: the breadth of commonsense knowledge (the set of atomic facts that the average person knows is enormous);  and the sub-symbolic form of most commonsense knowledge (much of what people know is not represented as "facts" or "statements" that they could express verbally).  There is also the difficulty of  , the problem of obtaining knowledge for AI applications. 
 An "agent" is anything that perceives and takes actions in the world. A   has goals or preferences and takes actions to make them happen.  In  , the agent has a specific goal.  In  , the agent has preferences—there are some situations it would prefer to be in, and some situations it is trying to avoid. The decision making agent assigns a number to each situation (called the " ") that measures how much the agent prefers it. For each possible action, it can calculate the " ": the   of all possible outcomes of the action, weighted by the probability that the outcome will occur. It can then choose the action with the maximum expected utility. 
 In  , the agent knows exactly what the effect of any action will be.  In most real-world problems, however, the agent may not be certain about the situation they are in (it is "unknown" or "unobservable") and it may not know for certain what will happen after each possible action (it is not "deterministic"). It must choose an action by making a probabilistic guess and then reassess the situation to see if the action worked. 
 In some problems, the agent's preferences may be uncertain, especially if there are other agents or humans involved. These can be learned (e.g., with  ) or the agent can seek information to improve its preferences.    can be used to weigh the value of exploratory or experimental actions.  The space of possible future actions and situations is typically   large, so the agents must take actions and evaluate situations while being uncertain what the outcome will be.
 A   has a   that describes the probability that a particular action will change the state in a particular way, and a   that supplies the utility of each state and the cost of each action. A   associates a decision with each possible state. The policy could be calculated (e.g., by  ), be  , or it can be learned. 
  describes rational behavior of multiple interacting agents, and is used in AI programs that make decisions that involve other agents. 
  is the study of programs that can improve their performance on a given task automatically.  It has been a part of AI from the beginning. 
 There are several kinds of machine learning.   analyzes a stream of data and finds patterns and makes predictions without any other guidance.    requires a human to label the input data first, and comes in two main varieties:   (where the program must learn to predict what category the input belongs in) and   (where the program must deduce a numeric function based on numeric input). 
 In   the agent is rewarded for good responses and punished for bad ones. The agent learns to choose responses that are classified as "good".    is when the knowledge gained from one problem is applied to a new problem.    is a type of machine learning that runs inputs through biologically inspired   for all of these types of learning. 
  can assess learners by  , by   (how much data is required), or by other notions of  . 
  (NLP)  allows programs to read, write and communicate in human languages such as  . Specific problems include  ,  ,  ,  ,   and  . 
 Early work, based on  's   and  , had difficulty with   unless restricted to small domains called " " (due to the common sense knowledge problem ).   believed that it was meaning and not grammar that was the key to understanding languages, and that   and not dictionaries should be the basis of computational language structure.
 Modern deep learning techniques for NLP include   (representing words, typically as   encoding their meaning),    (a deep learning architecture using an   mechanism),  and others.  In 2019,   (or "GPT") language models began to generate coherent text,  and by 2023 these models were able to get human-level scores on the  ,   test,   test, and many other real-world applications. 
  is the ability to use input from sensors (such as cameras, microphones, wireless signals, active  , sonar, radar, and  ) to deduce aspects of the world.   is the ability to analyze visual input. 
 The field includes  ,   ,   ,  ,  and  . 
  is an interdisciplinary umbrella that comprises systems that recognize, interpret, process or simulate human  .  For example, some   are programmed to speak conversationally or even to banter humorously; it makes them appear more sensitive to the emotional dynamics of human interaction, or to otherwise facilitate  .
 However, this tends to give naïve users an unrealistic conception of the intelligence of existing computer agents.  Moderate successes related to affective computing include textual   and, more recently,  , wherein AI classifies the affects displayed by a videotaped subject. 
 A machine with   should be able to solve a wide variety of problems with breadth and versatility similar to human intelligence. 
 AI research uses a wide variety of techniques to accomplish the goals above. 
 AI can solve many problems by intelligently searching through many possible solutions.  There are two very different kinds of search used in AI:   and  .
  searches through a tree of possible states to try to find a goal state.  For example,   algorithms search through trees of goals and subgoals, attempting to find a path to a target goal, a process called  . 
  are rarely sufficient for most real-world problems: the   (the number of places to search) quickly grows to  . The result is a search that is   or never completes.  " " or "rules of thumb" can help to prioritize choices that are more likely to reach a goal. 
  is used for   programs, such as chess or Go. It searches through a   of possible moves and counter-moves, looking for a winning position. 
  uses   to find a solution to a problem. It begins with some form of guess and refines it incrementally. 
  is a type of local search that optimizes a set of numerical parameters by incrementally adjusting them to minimize a  . Variants of gradient descent are commonly used to train neural networks. 
 Another type of local search is  , which aims to iteratively improve a set of candidate solutions by "mutating" and "recombining" them,   only the fittest to survive each generation. 
 Distributed search processes can coordinate via   algorithms. Two popular swarm algorithms used in search are   (inspired by bird  ) and   (inspired by  ). 
 Formal   is used for   and  . 
Formal logic comes in two main forms:   (which operates on statements that are true or false and uses   such as "and", "or", "not" and "implies")  and   (which also operates on objects, predicates and relations and uses   such as "    is a  " and "There are    s that are  s"). 
  in logic is the process of   a new statement ( ) from other statements that are given and assumed to be true (the  ).  Proofs can be structured as proof  , in which nodes are labelled by sentences, and children nodes are connected to  parent nodes by  .
 Given a problem and a set of premises, problem-solving reduces to searching for a proof tree whose root node is labelled by a solution of the problem and whose leaf nodes are labelled by premises or  . In the case of  , problem-solving search can be performed by reasoning   from the premises or   from the problem.  In the more general case of the clausal form of  ,   is a single, axiom-free rule of inference, in which a problem is solved by proving a contradiction from premises that include the negation of the problem to be solved. 
 Inference in both Horn clause logic and first-order logic is  , and therefore  . However, backward reasoning with Horn clauses, which underpins computation in the   language  , is  . Moreover, its efficiency is competitive with computation in other   languages. 
  assigns a "degree of truth" between 0 and 1. It can therefore handle propositions that are vague and partially true. 
 , including logic programming with  , are designed to handle  . 
Other specialized versions of logic have been developed to describe many complex domains.
 Many problems in AI (including in reasoning, planning, learning, perception, and robotics) require the agent to operate with incomplete or uncertain information. AI researchers have devised a number of tools to solve these problems using methods from   theory and economics.  Precise mathematical tools have been developed that analyze how an agent can make choices and plan, using  ,  ,  and  .  These tools include models such as  ,  dynamic  ,    and  . 
  are a tool that can be used for   (using the   algorithm),    (using the  ),    (using  )  and   (using  ). 
 
Probabilistic algorithms can also be used for filtering, prediction, smoothing and finding explanations for streams of data, helping   systems to analyze processes that occur over time (e.g.,   or  ). The simplest AI applications can be divided into two types: classifiers (e.g., "if shiny then diamond"), on one hand, and controllers (e.g., "if diamond then pick up"), on the other hand.   are functions that use   to determine the closest match. They can be fine-tuned based on chosen examples using  . Each pattern (also called an " ") is labeled with a certain predefined class. All the observations combined with their class labels are known as a  . When a new observation is received, that observation is classified based on previous experience. 
 There are many kinds of classifiers in use. The   is the simplest and most widely used symbolic machine learning algorithm.    algorithm was the most widely used analogical AI until the mid-1990s, and   such as the   (SVM) displaced k-nearest neighbor in the 1990s. 
The   is reportedly the "most widely used learner"  at Google, due in part to its scalability. 
  are also used as classifiers. 
 An artificial neural network is based on a collection of nodes also known as  , which loosely model the   in a biological brain. It is trained to recognise patterns; once trained, it can recognise those patterns in fresh data. There is an input, at least one hidden layer of nodes and an output. Each node applies a function and once the   crosses its specified threshold, the data is transmitted to the next layer. A network is typically called a deep neural network if it has at least 2 hidden layers. 
 Learning algorithms for neural networks use   to choose the weights that will get the right output for each input during training. The most common training technique is the   algorithm. 
Neural networks learn to model complex relationships between inputs and outputs and   in data. In theory, a neural network can learn any function. 
 In   the signal passes in only one direction.    feed the output signal back into the input, which allows short-term memories of previous input events.   is the most successful network architecture for recurrent networks. 
 
use only a single layer of neurons, deep learning  uses multiple layers.
  strengthen the connection between neurons that are "close" to each other—this is especially important in  , where a local set of neurons must   before the network can identify an object. 
 Deep learning 
uses several layers of neurons between the network's inputs and outputs. The multiple layers can progressively extract higher-level features from the raw input. For example, in  , lower layers may identify edges, while higher layers may identify the concepts relevant to a human such as digits or letters or faces. 
 Deep learning has profoundly improved the performance of programs in many important subfields of artificial intelligence, including  ,  ,  ,   and others. The reason that deep learning performs so well in so many applications is not known as of 2023. 
The sudden success of deep learning in 2012–2015 did not occur because of some new discovery or theoretical breakthrough (deep neural networks and backpropagation had been described by many people, as far back as the 1950s) 
but because of two factors: the incredible increase in computer power (including the hundred-fold increase in speed by switching to  ) and the availability of vast amounts of training data, especially the giant   used for benchmark testing, such as  . 
  (GPT) are   that are based on the semantic relationships between words in sentences ( ). Text-based GPT models are pre-trained on a large corpus of text which can be from the internet. The pre-training consists in predicting the next   (a token being usually a word, subword, or punctuation). Throughout this pre-training, GPT models accumulate knowledge about the world, and can then generate human-like text by repeatedly predicting the next token. Typically, a subsequent training phase makes the model more truthful, useful and harmless, usually with a technique called   (RLHF). Current GPT models are still prone to generating falsehoods called " ", although this can be reduced with RLHF and quality data. They are used in  , which allow you to ask a question or request a task in simple text. 
 Current models and services include:   (formerly Bard),  ,  ,  ,   and  .    GPT models can process different types of data ( ) such as images, videos, sound and text. 
 In the late 2010s,   (GPUs) that were increasingly designed with AI-specific enhancements and used with specialized   software, had replaced previously used   (CPUs) as the dominant means for large-scale (commercial and academic)   models' training.  Historically, specialized languages, such as  ,  ,   and others, had been used.
 AI and machine learning technology is used in most of the essential applications of the 2020s, including:   (such as  ),  ,   (offered by  ,   or  ), driving  ,   ( ,  ),   (such as   or  ),   (including  ,   and  ),   ( ,  ),   ( 's   or  's   and  's  ) and   (used by  , Apple's   and  ).
 The application of AI in   and   has the potential to increase patient care and quality of life.  Through the lens of the  , medical professionals are ethically compelled to use AI, if applications can more accurately diagnose and treat patients.
 For medical research, AI is an important tool for processing and integrating  . This is particularly important for   and   development which use   imaging as a key technique in fabrication.  It has been suggested that AI can overcome discrepancies in funding allocated to different fields of research.  New AI tools can deepen the understanding of biomedically relevant pathways. For example,   (2021) demonstrated the ability to approximate, in hours rather than months, the 3D  .  In 2023, it was reported that AI-guided drug discovery helped find a class of antibiotics capable of killing two different types of drug-resistant bacteria.  In 2024, researchers used machine learning to accelerate the search for   drug treatments. Their aim was to identify compounds that block the clumping, or aggregation, of   (the protein that characterises Parkinson's disease). They were able to speed up the initial screening process ten-fold, and to reduce the cost by a thousand-fold. 
  programs have been used since the 1950s to demonstrate and test AI's most advanced techniques.    became the first computer chess-playing system to beat a reigning world chess champion,  , on 11 May 1997.  In 2011, in a     exhibition match,  's  ,  , defeated the two greatest   champions,   and  , by a significant margin.  In March 2016,   won 4 out of 5 games of   in a match with Go champion  , becoming the first  -playing system to beat a professional Go player without  . Then in 2017 it  , who was the best Go player in the world.  Other programs handle   games, such as the  -playing program  .    developed increasingly generalistic   models, such as with  , which could be trained to play chess, Go, or   games.  In 2019, DeepMind's AlphaStar achieved grandmaster level in  , a particularly challenging real-time strategy game that involves incomplete knowledge of what happens on the map.  In 2021, an AI agent competed in a PlayStation Gran Turismo competition, winning against four of the world's best Gran Turismo drivers using deep reinforcement learning. 
 Various countries are deploying AI military applications.  The main applications enhance  , communications, sensors, integration and interoperability.  Research is targeting intelligence collection and analysis, logistics, cyber operations, information operations, and semiautonomous and  .  AI technologies enable coordination of sensors and effectors, threat detection and identification, marking of enemy positions,  , coordination and deconfliction of distributed   between networked combat vehicles involving manned and unmanned teams.  AI was incorporated into military operations in Iraq and Syria. 
 In November 2023, US Vice President   disclosed a declaration signed by 31 nations to set guardrails for the military use of AI. The commitments include using legal reviews to ensure the compliance of military AI with international laws, and being cautious and transparent in the development of this technology. 
 In the early 2020s,   gained widespread prominence. In March 2023, 58% of U.S. adults had heard about   and 14% had tried it.  The increasing realism and ease-of-use of AI-based   generators such as  ,  , and   sparked a trend of   AI-generated photos. Widespread attention was gained by a fake photo of   wearing a white puffer coat, the fictional arrest of  , and a hoax of an attack on the  , as well as the usage in professional creative arts. 
 There are also thousands of successful AI applications used to solve specific problems for specific industries or institutions. In a 2017 survey, one in five companies reported they had incorporated "AI" in some offerings or processes.  A few examples are  , medical diagnosis, military logistics, applications that predict the result of judicial decisions,  , or supply chain management.
 In agriculture, AI has helped farmers identify areas that need irrigation, fertilization, pesticide treatments or increasing yield. Agronomists use AI to conduct research and development. AI has been used to predict the ripening time for crops such as tomatoes, monitor soil moisture, operate agricultural robots, conduct predictive analytics, classify livestock pig call emotions, automate greenhouses, detect diseases and pests, and save water.
 Artificial intelligence is used in astronomy to analyze increasing amounts of available data and applications, mainly for "classification, regression, clustering, forecasting, generation, discovery, and the development of new scientific insights" for example for discovering exoplanets, forecasting solar activity, and distinguishing between signals and instrumental effects in gravitational wave astronomy. It could also be used for activities in space such as space exploration, including analysis of data from space missions, real-time science decisions of spacecraft, space debris avoidance, and more autonomous operation.
 AI has potential benefits and potential risks. AI may be able to advance science and find solutions for serious problems:   of   hopes to "solve intelligence, and then use that to solve everything else".  However, as the use of AI has become widespread, several unintended consequences and risks have been identified.  In-production systems can sometimes not factor ethics and bias into their AI training processes, especially when the AI algorithms are inherently unexplainable in deep learning. 
 Machine-learning algorithms require large amounts of data. The techniques used to acquire this data have raised concerns about  ,   and  .
 Technology companies collect a wide range of data from their users, including online activity, geolocation data, video and audio. 
For example, in order to build   algorithms,   has recorded millions of private conversations and allowed   to listen to and transcribe some of them.  Opinions about this widespread   range from those who see it as a   to those for whom it is clearly   and a violation of the  . 
 AI developers argue that this is the only way to deliver valuable applications. and have developed several techniques that attempt to preserve privacy while still obtaining the data, such as  ,   and  .  Since 2016, some privacy experts, such as  , have begun to view privacy in terms of  .   wrote that experts have pivoted "from the question of 'what they know' to the question of 'what they're doing with it'." 
 Generative AI is often trained on unlicensed copyrighted works, including in domains such as images or computer code; the output is then used under the rationale of " ". Website owners who do not wish to have their copyrighted content AI-indexed or 'scraped' can add code to their site if they do not want their website to be indexed by a search engine, which is currently available through certain services such as  . Experts disagree about how well and under what circumstances this rationale will hold up in courts of law; relevant factors may include "the purpose and character of the use of the copyrighted work" and "the effect upon the potential market for the copyrighted work".  In 2023, leading authors (including   and  ) sued AI companies for using their work to train generative AI. 
 ,   and others use   to guide users to more content. These AI programs were given the goal of   user engagement (that is, the only goal was to keep people watching). The AI learned that users tended to choose  ,  , and extreme   content, and, to keep them watching, the AI recommended more of it. Users also tended to watch more content on the same subject, so the AI led people into   where they received multiple versions of the same misinformation.  This convinced many users that the misinformation was true, and ultimately undermined trust in institutions, the media and the government.  The AI program had correctly learned to maximize its goal, but the result was harmful to society. After the U.S. election in 2016, major technology companies took steps to mitigate the problem.
 In 2022,   began to create images, audio, video and text that are indistinguishable from real photographs, recordings, films or human writing. It is possible for bad actors to use this technology to create massive amounts of misinformation or propaganda.  AI pioneer   expressed concern about AI enabling "authoritarian leaders to manipulate their electorates" on a large scale, among other risks. 
 Machine learning applications will be biased if they learn from biased data.  The developers may not be aware that the bias exists. 
Bias can be introduced by the way   is selected and by the way a model is deployed.  If a biased algorithm is used to make decisions that can seriously   people (as it can in  ,  ,  ,   or  ) then the algorithm may cause  . 
  in machine learning is the study of how to prevent the harm caused by algorithmic bias. It has become serious area of academic study within AI. Researchers have discovered it is not always possible to define "fairness" in a way that satisfies all stakeholders. 
 On June 28, 2015,  's new image labeling feature mistakenly identified Jacky Alcine and a friend as "gorillas" because they were black. The system was trained on a dataset that contained very few images of black people,  a problem called "sample size disparity".  Google "fixed" this problem by preventing the system from labelling   as a "gorilla". Eight years later, in 2023, Google Photos still could not identify a gorilla, and neither could similar products from Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Amazon. 
  is a commercial program widely used by   to assess the likelihood of a   becoming a  .
In 2016,   at   discovered that COMPAS exhibited racial bias, despite the fact that the program was not told the races of the defendants. Although the error rate for both whites and blacks was calibrated equal at exactly 61%, the errors for each race were different—the system consistently overestimated the chance that a black person would re-offend and would underestimate the chance that a white person would not re-offend.  In 2017, several researchers  showed that it was mathematically impossible for COMPAS to accommodate all possible measures of fairness when the base rates of re-offense were different for whites and blacks in the data. 
 A program can make biased decisions even if the data does not explicitly mention a problematic feature (such as "race" or "gender"). The feature will correlate with other features (like "address", "shopping history" or "first name"), and the program will make the same decisions based on these features as it would on "race" or "gender". 
Moritz Hardt said "the most robust fact in this research area is that fairness through blindness doesn't work." 
 Criticism of COMPAS highlighted that machine learning models are designed to make "predictions" that are only valid if we assume that the future will resemble the past. If they are trained on data that includes the results of racist decisions in the past, machine learning models must predict that racist decisions will be made in the future. If an application then uses these predictions as  , some of these "recommendations" will likely be racist.  Thus, machine learning is not well suited to help make decisions in areas where there is hope that the future will be   than the past. It is necessarily descriptive and not proscriptive. 
 Bias and unfairness may go undetected because the developers are overwhelmingly white and male: among AI engineers, about 4% are black and 20% are women. 
 At its 2022   (ACM FAccT 2022), the  , in Seoul, South Korea, presented and published findings that recommend that until AI and robotics systems are demonstrated to be free of bias mistakes, they are unsafe, and the use of self-learning neural networks trained on vast, unregulated sources of flawed internet data should be curtailed. 
 Many AI systems are so complex that their designers cannot explain how they reach their decisions.  Particularly with  , in which there are a large amount of non-  relationships between inputs and outputs. But some popular explainability techniques exist. 
 It is impossible to be certain that a program is operating correctly if no one knows how exactly it works. There have been many cases where a machine learning program passed rigorous tests, but nevertheless learned something different than what the programmers intended. For example, a system that could identify skin diseases better than medical professionals was found to actually have a strong tendency to classify images with a   as "cancerous", because pictures of malignancies typically include a ruler to show the scale.  Another machine learning system designed to help effectively allocate medical resources was found to classify patients with asthma as being at "low risk" of dying from pneumonia. Having asthma is actually a severe risk factor, but since the patients having asthma would usually get much more medical care, they were relatively unlikely to die according to the training data. The correlation between asthma and low risk of dying from pneumonia was real, but misleading. 
 People who have been harmed by an algorithm's decision have a right to an explanation.  Doctors, for example, are expected to clearly and completely explain to their colleagues the reasoning behind any decision they make. Early drafts of the European Union's   in 2016 included an explicit statement that this right exists.  Industry experts noted that this is an unsolved problem with no solution in sight. Regulators argued that nevertheless the harm is real: if the problem has no solution, the tools should not be used. 
  established the   ("Explainable Artificial Intelligence") program in 2014 to try and solve these problems.  
 There are several possible solutions to the transparency problem. SHAP tried to solve the transparency problems by visualising the contribution of each feature to the output.  LIME can locally approximate a model with a simpler, interpretable model.    provides a large number of outputs in addition to the target classification. These other outputs can help developers deduce what the network has learned.   ,   and other   methods can allow developers to see what different layers of a deep network have learned and produce output that can suggest what the network is learning. 
 Artificial intelligence provides a number of tools that are useful to  , such as  ,  ,   or  .
 A lethal autonomous weapon is a machine that locates, selects and engages human targets without human supervision.  Widely available AI tools can be used by bad actors to develop inexpensive autonomous weapons and, if produced at scale, they are potentially  .  Even when used in conventional warfare, it is unlikely that they will be unable to reliably choose targets and could potentially  .  In 2014, 30 nations (including China) supported a ban on autonomous weapons under the  '  , however the   and others disagreed.  By 2015, over fifty countries were reported to be researching battlefield robots. 
 AI tools make it easier for   to efficiently control their citizens in several ways.   and   allow widespread  .  , operating this data, can   potential enemies of the state and prevent them from hiding.   can precisely target   and   for maximum effect.   and   aid in producing misinformation. Advanced AI can make authoritarian   more competitive than liberal and decentralized systems such as  . It lowers the cost and difficulty of   and  .  All these technologies have been available since 2020 or earlier—AI   are already being used for   in China. 
 There many other ways that AI is expected to help bad actors, some of which can not be foreseen. For example, machine-learning AI is able to design tens of thousands of toxic molecules in a matter of hours. 
 Training AI systems requires an enormous amount of computing power. Usually only   companies have the financial resources to make such investments. Smaller startups such as   and   end up buying access to   from   and   respectively. 
 Economists have frequently highlighted the risks of redundancies from AI, and speculated about unemployment if there is no adequate social policy for full employment. 
 In the past, technology has tended to increase rather than reduce total employment, but economists acknowledge that "we're in uncharted territory" with AI.  A survey of economists showed disagreement about whether the increasing use of robots and AI will cause a substantial increase in long-term  , but they generally agree that it could be a net benefit if   gains are  .  Risk estimates vary; for example, in the 2010s, Michael Osborne and   estimated 47% of U.S. jobs are at "high risk" of potential automation, while an OECD report classified only 9% of U.S. jobs as "high risk".  The methodology of speculating about future employment levels has been criticised as lacking evidential foundation, and for implying that technology, rather than social policy, creates unemployment, as opposed to redundancies.  In April 2023, it was reported that 70% of the jobs for Chinese video game illustrators had been eliminated by generative artificial intelligence. 
 Unlike previous waves of automation, many middle-class jobs may be eliminated by artificial intelligence;   stated in 2015 that "the worry that AI could do to white-collar jobs what steam power did to blue-collar ones during the Industrial Revolution" is "worth taking seriously".  Jobs at extreme risk range from   to fast food cooks, while job demand is likely to increase for care-related professions ranging from personal healthcare to the clergy. 
 From the early days of the development of artificial intelligence, there have been arguments, for example, those put forward by  , about whether tasks that can be done by computers actually should be done by them, given the difference between computers and humans, and between quantitative calculation and qualitative, value-based judgement. 
 It has been argued AI will become so powerful that humanity may irreversibly lose control of it. This could, as physicist   stated, " ".  This scenario has been common in science fiction, when a computer or robot suddenly develops a human-like "self-awareness" (or "sentience" or "consciousness") and becomes a malevolent character.  These sci-fi scenarios are misleading in several ways.
 First, AI does not require human-like " " to be an existential risk. Modern AI programs are given specific goals and use learning and intelligence to achieve them. Philosopher   argued that if one gives   goal to a sufficiently powerful AI, it may choose to destroy humanity to achieve it (he used the example of a  ).    gives the example of household robot that tries to find a way to kill its owner to prevent it from being unplugged, reasoning that "you can't fetch the coffee if you're dead."  In order to be safe for humanity, a   would have to be genuinely   with humanity's morality and values so that it is "fundamentally on our side". 
 Second,   argues that AI does not require a robot body or physical control to pose an existential risk. The essential parts of civilization are not physical. Things like  ,  ,  ,   and the   are made of  ; they exist because there are stories that billions of people believe. The current prevalence of   suggests that an AI could use language to convince people to believe anything, even to take actions that are destructive. 
 The opinions amongst experts and industry insiders are mixed, with sizable fractions both concerned and unconcerned by risk from eventual superintelligent AI.  Personalities such as  ,  , and   have expressed concern about existential risk from AI. 
AI pioneers including  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and   have expressed concerns about the risks of AI. In 2023, many leading AI experts issued the joint statement that "Mitigating the risk of extinction from AI should be a global priority alongside other societal-scale risks such as pandemics and nuclear war". 
 Other researchers, however, spoke in favor of a less dystopian view. AI pioneer   did not sign the joint statement, emphasising that in 95% of all cases, AI research is about making "human lives longer and healthier and easier."  While the tools that are now being used to improve lives can also be used by bad actors, "they can also be used against the bad actors."    also argued that "it's a mistake to fall for the doomsday hype on AI—and that regulators who do will only benefit vested interests."    "scoffs at his peers' dystopian scenarios of supercharged misinformation and even, eventually, human extinction."  In the early 2010s, experts argued that the risks are too distant in the future to warrant research or that humans will be valuable from the perspective of a superintelligent machine.  However, after 2016, the study of current and future risks and possible solutions became a serious area of research. 
 Friendly AI are machines that have been designed from the beginning to minimize risks and to make choices that benefit humans.  , who coined the term, argues that developing friendly AI should be a higher research priority: it may require a large investment and it must be completed before AI becomes an existential risk. 
 Machines with intelligence have the potential to use their intelligence to make ethical decisions. The field of machine ethics provides machines with ethical principles and procedures for resolving ethical dilemmas. 
The field of machine ethics is also called computational morality, 
and was founded at an   symposium in 2005. 
 Other approaches include  's "artificial moral agents"  and  's   for developing provably beneficial machines. 
 Active organizations in the AI open-source community include  ,   ,    and  .  Various AI models, such as  ,   or  , have been made open-weight,  meaning that their architecture and trained parameters (the "weights") are publicly available. Open-weight models can be freely  , which allows companies to specialize them with their own data and for their own use-case.  Open-weight models are useful for research and innovation, but can also be misused. Since they can be fine-tuned, any built-in security measure, such as objecting to harmful requests, can be trained away until it becomes ineffective. Some researchers warn that future AI models may develop dangerous capabilities (such as the potential to drastically facilitate  ), and that once released on the Internet, they can't be deleted everywhere if needed. They recommend pre-release audits and cost-benefit analyses. 
 Artificial Intelligence projects can have their ethical permissibility tested while designing, developing, and implementing an AI system. An AI framework such as the Care and Act Framework containing the SUM values—developed by the   tests projects in four main areas: 
 Other developments in ethical frameworks include those decided upon during the  , the Montreal Declaration for Responsible AI, and the IEEE's Ethics of Autonomous Systems initiative, among others;  however, these principles do not go without their criticisms, especially regards to the people chosen contributes to these frameworks. 
 Promotion of the wellbeing of the people and communities that these technologies affect requires consideration of the social and ethical implications at all stages of AI system design, development and implementation, and collaboration between job roles such as data scientists, product managers, data engineers, domain experts, and delivery managers. 
 The regulation of artificial intelligence is the development of public sector policies and laws for promoting and regulating artificial intelligence (AI); it is therefore related to the broader regulation of algorithms.  The regulatory and policy landscape for AI is an emerging issue in jurisdictions globally.  According to AI Index at  , the annual number of AI-related laws passed in the 127 survey countries jumped from one passed in 2016 to 37 passed in 2022 alone.  Between 2016 and 2020, more than 30 countries adopted dedicated strategies for AI.  Most EU member states had released national AI strategies, as had Canada, China, India, Japan, Mauritius, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, U.S., and Vietnam. Others were in the process of elaborating their own AI strategy, including Bangladesh, Malaysia and Tunisia.  The   was launched in June 2020, stating a need for AI to be developed in accordance with human rights and democratic values, to ensure public confidence and trust in the technology.   ,  , and   published a joint statement in November 2021 calling for a government commission to regulate AI.  In 2023, OpenAI leaders published recommendations for the governance of superintelligence, which they believe may happen in less than 10 years.  In 2023, the United Nations also launched an advisory body to provide recommendations on AI governance; the body comprises technology company executives, governments officials and academics. 
 In a 2022   survey, attitudes towards AI varied greatly by country; 78% of Chinese citizens, but only 35% of Americans, agreed that "products and services using AI have more benefits than drawbacks".  A 2023  /Ipsos poll found that 61% of Americans agree, and 22% disagree, that AI poses risks to humanity.  In a 2023   poll, 35% of Americans thought it "very important", and an additional 41% thought it "somewhat important", for the federal government to regulate AI, versus 13% responding "not very important" and 8% responding "not at all important". 
 In November 2023, the first global   was held in   in the UK to discuss the near and far term risks of AI and the possibility of mandatory and voluntary regulatory frameworks.  28 countries including the United States, China, and the European Union issued a declaration at the start of the summit, calling for international co-operation to manage the challenges and risks of artificial intelligence. 
 The study of mechanical or "formal" reasoning began with philosophers and mathematicians in antiquity. The study of logic led directly to  's  , which suggested that a machine, by shuffling symbols as simple as "0" and "1", could simulate any conceivable form of mathematical reasoning.  This, along with concurrent discoveries in  ,   and  , led researchers to consider the possibility of building an "electronic brain".  
They developed several areas of research that would become part of AI, 
such as   and   design for "artificial neurons" in 1943,  and Turing's influential 1950 paper ' ', which introduced the   and showed that "machine intelligence" was plausible. 
 The field of AI research was founded at   at   in 1956.  The attendees became the leaders of AI research in the 1960s.  They and their students produced programs that the press described as "astonishing":  computers were learning   strategies, solving word problems in algebra, proving   and speaking English.  Artificial intelligence laboratories were set up at a number of British and U.S. Universities in the latter 1950s and early 1960s. 
 Researchers in the 1960s and the 1970s were convinced that their methods would eventually succeed in creating a machine with   and considered this the goal of their field.    predicted, "machines will be capable, within twenty years, of doing any work a man can do".    agreed, writing, "within a generation ... the problem of creating 'artificial intelligence' will substantially be solved".  They had, however, underestimated the difficulty of the problem.  In 1974, both the U.S. and British governments cut off exploratory research in response to the   of   and ongoing pressure from the U.S. Congress to  .   's and  's book   was understood as proving that   would never be useful for solving real-world tasks, thus discrediting the approach altogether.  The " ", a period when obtaining funding for AI projects was difficult, followed. 
 In the early 1980s, AI research was revived by the commercial success of  ,  a form of AI program that simulated the knowledge and analytical skills of human experts. By 1985, the market for AI had reached over a billion dollars. At the same time, Japan's   project inspired the U.S. and British governments to restore funding for  .  However, beginning with the collapse of the   market in 1987, AI once again fell into disrepute, and a second, longer-lasting winter began. 
 Up to this point, most of AI's funding had gone to projects which used high level   to represent   like plans, goals, beliefs and known facts. In the 1980s, some researchers began to doubt that this approach would be able to imitate all the processes of human cognition, especially  ,  ,   and  ,  and began to look into "sub-symbolic" approaches.    rejected "representation" in general and focussed directly on engineering machines that move and survive.   ,   and others developed methods that handled incomplete and uncertain information by making reasonable guesses rather than precise logic.  But the most important development was the revival of " ", including neural network research, by   and others.  In 1990,   successfully showed that   can recognize handwritten digits, the first of many successful applications of neural networks. 
 AI gradually restored its reputation in the late 1990s and early 21st century by exploiting formal mathematical methods and by finding specific solutions to specific problems. This " " and "formal" focus allowed researchers to produce verifiable results and collaborate with other fields (such as  ,   and  ).  By 2000, solutions developed by AI researchers were being widely used, although in the 1990s they were rarely described as "artificial intelligence". 
However, several academic researchers became concerned that AI was no longer pursuing its original goal of creating versatile, fully intelligent machines. Beginning around 2002, they founded the subfield of   (or "AGI"), which had several well-funded institutions by the 2010s. 
  began to dominate industry benchmarks in 2012 and was adopted throughout the field. 
For many specific tasks, other methods were abandoned. 
Deep learning's success was based on both hardware improvements ( ,   ,  ) and access to   (including curated datasets,  such as  ). Deep learning's success led to an enormous increase in interest and funding in AI.  The amount of machine learning research (measured by total publications) increased by 50% in the years 2015–2019. 
 In 2016, issues of   and the misuse of technology were catapulted into center stage at machine learning conferences, publications vastly increased, funding became available, and many researchers re-focussed their careers on these issues. The   became a serious field of academic study. 
 In the late teens and early 2020s,   companies began to deliver programs that created enormous interest. In 2015,  , developed by  , beat the world champion  . The program was taught only the rules of the game and developed strategy by itself.   is a   that was released in 2020 by   and is capable of generating high-quality human-like text.  These programs, and others, inspired an aggressive  , where large companies began investing billions in AI research. According to 'AI Impacts', about $50 billion annually was invested in "AI" around 2022 in the U.S. alone and about 20% of the new U.S. Computer Science PhD graduates have specialized in "AI". 
About 800,000 "AI"-related U.S. job openings existed in 2022. 
  wrote in 1950 "I propose to consider the question 'can machines think'?"  He advised changing the question from whether a machine "thinks", to "whether or not it is possible for machinery to show intelligent behaviour".  He devised the Turing test, which measures the ability of a machine to simulate human conversation.  Since we can only observe the behavior of the machine, it does not matter if it is "actually" thinking or literally has a "mind". Turing notes that   but "it is usual to have a polite convention that everyone thinks" 
  and   agree with Turing that intelligence must be defined in terms of external behavior, not internal structure.  However, they are critical that the test requires the machine to imitate humans. "  texts," they wrote, "do not define the goal of their field as making 'machines that fly so exactly like   that they can fool other pigeons. "  AI founder   agreed, writing that "Artificial intelligence is not, by definition, simulation of human intelligence". 
 McCarthy defines intelligence as "the computational part of the ability to achieve goals in the world."  Another AI founder,   similarly describes it as "the ability to solve hard problems".  The leading AI textbook defines it as the study of agents that perceive their environment and take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.  These definitions view intelligence in terms of well-defined problems with well-defined solutions, where both the difficulty of the problem and the performance of the program are direct measures of the "intelligence" of the machine—and no other philosophical discussion is required, or may not even be possible.
 Another definition has been adopted by Google,  a major practitioner in the field of AI. This definition stipulates the ability of systems to synthesize information as the manifestation of intelligence, similar to the way it is defined in biological intelligence.
 No established unifying theory or   has guided AI research for most of its history.  The unprecedented success of statistical machine learning in the 2010s eclipsed all other approaches (so much so that some sources, especially in the business world, use the term "artificial intelligence" to mean "machine learning with neural networks"). This approach is mostly  ,   and  . Critics argue that these questions may have to be revisited by future generations of AI researchers.
  (or " ")  simulated the high-level conscious reasoning that people use when they solve puzzles, express legal reasoning and do mathematics. They were highly successful at "intelligent" tasks such as algebra or IQ tests. In the 1960s, Newell and Simon proposed the  : "A physical symbol system has the necessary and sufficient means of general intelligent action." 
 However, the symbolic approach failed on many tasks that humans solve easily, such as learning, recognizing an object or commonsense reasoning.   is the discovery that high-level "intelligent" tasks were easy for AI, but low level "instinctive" tasks were extremely difficult.  Philosopher   had   since the 1960s that human expertise depends on unconscious instinct rather than conscious symbol manipulation, and on having a "feel" for the situation, rather than explicit symbolic knowledge.  Although his arguments had been ridiculed and ignored when they were first presented, eventually, AI research came to agree with him. 
 The issue is not resolved:   reasoning can make many of the same inscrutable mistakes that human intuition does, such as  . Critics such as   argue continuing research into symbolic AI will still be necessary to attain general intelligence,  in part because sub-symbolic AI is a move away from  : it can be difficult or impossible to understand why a modern statistical AI program made a particular decision. The emerging field of   attempts to bridge the two approaches.
 "Neats" hope that intelligent behavior is described using simple, elegant principles (such as  ,  , or  ). "Scruffies" expect that it necessarily requires solving a large number of unrelated problems. Neats defend their programs with theoretical rigor, scruffies rely mainly on incremental testing to see if they work. This issue was actively discussed in the 1970s and 1980s,  but eventually was seen as irrelevant. Modern AI has elements of both.
 Finding a provably correct or optimal solution is   for many important problems.  Soft computing is a set of techniques, including  ,   and neural networks, that are tolerant of imprecision, uncertainty, partial truth and approximation. Soft computing was introduced in the late 1980s and most successful AI programs in the 21st century are examples of soft computing with neural networks.
 AI researchers are divided as to whether to pursue the goals of artificial general intelligence and   directly or to solve as many specific problems as possible (narrow AI) in hopes these solutions will lead indirectly to the field's long-term goals.  General intelligence is difficult to define and difficult to measure, and modern AI has had more verifiable successes by focusing on specific problems with specific solutions. The experimental sub-field of artificial general intelligence studies this area exclusively.
 The   does not know whether a machine can have a  ,   and  , in the same sense that human beings do. This issue considers the internal experiences of the machine, rather than its external behavior. Mainstream AI research considers this issue irrelevant because it does not affect the goals of the field: to build machines that can solve problems using intelligence.   and   add that "[t]he additional project of making a machine conscious in exactly the way humans are is not one that we are equipped to take on."  However, the question has become central to the philosophy of mind. It is also typically the central question at issue in  .
  identified two problems in understanding the mind, which he named the "hard" and "easy" problems of consciousness.  The easy problem is understanding how the brain processes signals, makes plans and controls behavior. The hard problem is explaining how this   or why it should feel like anything at all, assuming we are right in thinking that it truly does feel like something (Dennett's consciousness illusionism says this is an illusion). Human   is easy to explain, however, human   is difficult to explain. For example, it is easy to imagine a color-blind person who has learned to identify which objects in their field of view are red, but it is not clear what would be required for the person to  . 
 Computationalism is the position in the   that the human mind is an information processing system and that thinking is a form of computing. Computationalism argues that the relationship between mind and body is similar or identical to the relationship between software and hardware and thus may be a solution to the  . This philosophical position was inspired by the work of AI researchers and cognitive scientists in the 1960s and was originally proposed by philosophers   and  . 
 Philosopher   characterized this position as " ": "The appropriately programmed computer with the right inputs and outputs would thereby have a mind in exactly the same sense human beings have minds."  Searle counters this assertion with his Chinese room argument, which attempts to show that, even if a machine perfectly simulates human behavior, there is still no reason to suppose it also has a mind. 
 It is difficult or impossible to reliably evaluate whether an advanced   (has the ability to feel), and if so, to what degree.  But if there is a significant chance that a given machine can feel and suffer, then it may be entitled to certain rights or welfare protection measures, similarly to animals.    (a set of capacities related to high intelligence, such as discernment or  ) may provide another moral basis for AI rights.    are also sometimes proposed as a practical way to integrate autonomous agents into society. 
 In 2017, the European Union considered granting "electronic personhood" to some of the most capable AI systems. Similarly to the legal status of companies, it would have conferred rights but also responsibilities.  Critics argued in 2018 that granting rights to AI systems would downplay the importance of  , and that legislation should focus on user needs rather than speculative futuristic scenarios. They also noted that robots lacked the autonomy to take part to society on their own. 
 Progress in AI increased interest in the topic. Proponents of AI welfare and rights often argue that AI sentience, if it emerges, would be particularly easy to deny. They warn that this may be a   analogous to   or  , which could lead to   if sentient AI is created and carelessly exploited. 
 A   is a hypothetical agent that would possess intelligence far surpassing that of the brightest and most gifted human mind. 
 If research into   produced sufficiently intelligent software, it might be able to  . The improved software would be even better at improving itself, leading to what   called an " " and   called a " ". 
 However, technologies cannot improve exponentially indefinitely, and typically follow an  , slowing when they reach the physical limits of what the technology can do. 
 Robot designer  , cyberneticist  , and inventor   have predicted that humans and machines will merge in the future into   that are more capable and powerful than either. This idea, called transhumanism, has roots in   and  . 
  argues that "artificial intelligence is the next stage in evolution", an idea first proposed by  's " " as far back as 1863, and expanded upon by   in his book of the same name in 1998. 
 Thought-capable artificial beings have appeared as storytelling devices since antiquity,  and have been a persistent theme in  . 
 A common   in these works began with  's  , where a human creation becomes a threat to its masters. This includes such works as   and     (both 1968), with  , the murderous computer in charge of the   spaceship, as well as   (1984) and   (1999). In contrast, the rare loyal robots such as Gort from   (1951) and Bishop from   (1986) are less prominent in popular culture. 
  introduced the   in many books and stories, most notably the "Multivac" series about a super-intelligent computer of the same name. Asimov's laws are often brought up during lay discussions of machine ethics;  while almost all artificial intelligence researchers are familiar with Asimov's laws through popular culture, they generally consider the laws useless for many reasons, one of which is their ambiguity. 
 Several works use AI to force us to confront the fundamental question of what makes us human, showing us artificial beings that have  , and thus to suffer. This appears in  's  , the films   and  , as well as the novel  , by  . Dick considers the idea that our understanding of human subjectivity is altered by technology created with artificial intelligence. 
 The two most widely used textbooks in 2023. (See the  ).
 These were the four of the most widely used AI textbooks in 2008:
 Later editions.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:MyContributions

Content: No changes were found matching these criteria.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:MyTalk

Content: People on Wikipedia can use this   to post a public message about edits made from the IP address you are currently using.
 Many IP addresses change periodically, and are often shared by several people. You may   or   to avoid future confusion with other logged out users. Creating an account also hides your IP address.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:MyContributions

Content: No changes were found matching these criteria.


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_intelligence

Content: 
  ( ), in its broadest sense, is   exhibited by  , particularly  . It is a   in   that develops and studies methods and software which enable machines to   and uses   and intelligence to take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.  Such machines may be called AIs.
  is widely used  ,  , and science. Some high-profile applications include advanced   (e.g.,  );   (used by  ,  , and  ); interacting   (e.g.,  ,  , and  );   (e.g.,  );   and   tools (e.g.,   and  ); and   play and analysis in   (e.g.,   and  ).  However, many AI applications are not perceived as AI: "A lot of cutting edge AI has filtered into general applications, often without being called AI because once something becomes useful enough and common enough it's  ." 
  was the first person to conduct substantial research in the field that he called machine intelligence.  Artificial intelligence was founded as an academic discipline in 1956.  The field went through multiple cycles of optimism,  followed by periods of disappointment and loss of funding, known as  .  Funding and interest vastly increased after 2012 when   surpassed all previous AI techniques,  and after 2017 with the  .  This led to the   of the early 2020s, with companies, universities, and laboratories overwhelmingly based in the United States pioneering significant  . 
 The growing use of artificial intelligence in the 21st century is influencing   towards increased automation,  , and the   into various economic sectors and areas of life,  ,  , government, industry, and  . This raises questions about  ,  , and  , prompting discussions about   to ensure the  . 
 The various sub-fields of AI research are centered around particular goals and the use of particular tools. The traditional goals of AI research include  ,  ,  ,  ,  , perception, and support for  .   —the ability to complete any task performable by a human on an at least equal level—is among the field's long-term goals. 
 To reach these goals, AI researchers have adapted and integrated a wide range of techniques, including   and  ,  ,  , and methods based on  ,  , and  .  AI also draws upon  ,  ,  ,  , and other fields. 
 The general problem of simulating (or creating) intelligence has been broken into sub-problems. These consist of particular traits or capabilities that researchers expect an intelligent system to display. The traits described below have received the most attention and cover the scope of AI research. 
 Early researchers developed algorithms that imitated step-by-step reasoning that humans use when they solve puzzles or make logical  .  By the late 1980s and 1990s, methods were developed for dealing with   or incomplete information, employing concepts from   and  . 
 Many of these algorithms are insufficient for solving large reasoning problems because they experience a "combinatorial explosion": they became exponentially slower as the problems grew larger.  Even humans rarely use the step-by-step deduction that early AI research could model. They solve most of their problems using fast, intuitive judgments.  Accurate and efficient reasoning is an unsolved problem.
  and   allow AI programs to answer questions intelligently and make deductions about real-world facts. Formal knowledge representations are used in content-based indexing and retrieval,  scene interpretation,  clinical decision support,  knowledge discovery (mining "interesting" and actionable inferences from large  ),  and other areas. 
 A   is a body of knowledge represented in a form that can be used by a program. An   is the set of objects, relations, concepts, and properties used by a particular domain of knowledge.  Knowledge bases need to represent things such as: objects, properties, categories and relations between objects;  situations, events, states and time;  causes and effects;  knowledge about knowledge (what we know about what other people know);    (things that humans assume are true until they are told differently and will remain true even when other facts are changing);  and many other aspects and domains of knowledge.
 Among the most difficult problems in knowledge representation are: the breadth of commonsense knowledge (the set of atomic facts that the average person knows is enormous);  and the sub-symbolic form of most commonsense knowledge (much of what people know is not represented as "facts" or "statements" that they could express verbally).  There is also the difficulty of  , the problem of obtaining knowledge for AI applications. 
 An "agent" is anything that perceives and takes actions in the world. A   has goals or preferences and takes actions to make them happen.  In  , the agent has a specific goal.  In  , the agent has preferences—there are some situations it would prefer to be in, and some situations it is trying to avoid. The decision making agent assigns a number to each situation (called the " ") that measures how much the agent prefers it. For each possible action, it can calculate the " ": the   of all possible outcomes of the action, weighted by the probability that the outcome will occur. It can then choose the action with the maximum expected utility. 
 In  , the agent knows exactly what the effect of any action will be.  In most real-world problems, however, the agent may not be certain about the situation they are in (it is "unknown" or "unobservable") and it may not know for certain what will happen after each possible action (it is not "deterministic"). It must choose an action by making a probabilistic guess and then reassess the situation to see if the action worked. 
 In some problems, the agent's preferences may be uncertain, especially if there are other agents or humans involved. These can be learned (e.g., with  ) or the agent can seek information to improve its preferences.    can be used to weigh the value of exploratory or experimental actions.  The space of possible future actions and situations is typically   large, so the agents must take actions and evaluate situations while being uncertain what the outcome will be.
 A   has a   that describes the probability that a particular action will change the state in a particular way, and a   that supplies the utility of each state and the cost of each action. A   associates a decision with each possible state. The policy could be calculated (e.g., by  ), be  , or it can be learned. 
  describes rational behavior of multiple interacting agents, and is used in AI programs that make decisions that involve other agents. 
  is the study of programs that can improve their performance on a given task automatically.  It has been a part of AI from the beginning. 
 There are several kinds of machine learning.   analyzes a stream of data and finds patterns and makes predictions without any other guidance.    requires a human to label the input data first, and comes in two main varieties:   (where the program must learn to predict what category the input belongs in) and   (where the program must deduce a numeric function based on numeric input). 
 In   the agent is rewarded for good responses and punished for bad ones. The agent learns to choose responses that are classified as "good".    is when the knowledge gained from one problem is applied to a new problem.    is a type of machine learning that runs inputs through biologically inspired   for all of these types of learning. 
  can assess learners by  , by   (how much data is required), or by other notions of  . 
  (NLP)  allows programs to read, write and communicate in human languages such as  . Specific problems include  ,  ,  ,  ,   and  . 
 Early work, based on  's   and  , had difficulty with   unless restricted to small domains called " " (due to the common sense knowledge problem ).   believed that it was meaning and not grammar that was the key to understanding languages, and that   and not dictionaries should be the basis of computational language structure.
 Modern deep learning techniques for NLP include   (representing words, typically as   encoding their meaning),    (a deep learning architecture using an   mechanism),  and others.  In 2019,   (or "GPT") language models began to generate coherent text,  and by 2023 these models were able to get human-level scores on the  ,   test,   test, and many other real-world applications. 
  is the ability to use input from sensors (such as cameras, microphones, wireless signals, active  , sonar, radar, and  ) to deduce aspects of the world.   is the ability to analyze visual input. 
 The field includes  ,   ,   ,  ,  and  . 
  is an interdisciplinary umbrella that comprises systems that recognize, interpret, process or simulate human  .  For example, some   are programmed to speak conversationally or even to banter humorously; it makes them appear more sensitive to the emotional dynamics of human interaction, or to otherwise facilitate  .
 However, this tends to give naïve users an unrealistic conception of the intelligence of existing computer agents.  Moderate successes related to affective computing include textual   and, more recently,  , wherein AI classifies the affects displayed by a videotaped subject. 
 A machine with   should be able to solve a wide variety of problems with breadth and versatility similar to human intelligence. 
 AI research uses a wide variety of techniques to accomplish the goals above. 
 AI can solve many problems by intelligently searching through many possible solutions.  There are two very different kinds of search used in AI:   and  .
  searches through a tree of possible states to try to find a goal state.  For example,   algorithms search through trees of goals and subgoals, attempting to find a path to a target goal, a process called  . 
  are rarely sufficient for most real-world problems: the   (the number of places to search) quickly grows to  . The result is a search that is   or never completes.  " " or "rules of thumb" can help to prioritize choices that are more likely to reach a goal. 
  is used for   programs, such as chess or Go. It searches through a   of possible moves and counter-moves, looking for a winning position. 
  uses   to find a solution to a problem. It begins with some form of guess and refines it incrementally. 
  is a type of local search that optimizes a set of numerical parameters by incrementally adjusting them to minimize a  . Variants of gradient descent are commonly used to train neural networks. 
 Another type of local search is  , which aims to iteratively improve a set of candidate solutions by "mutating" and "recombining" them,   only the fittest to survive each generation. 
 Distributed search processes can coordinate via   algorithms. Two popular swarm algorithms used in search are   (inspired by bird  ) and   (inspired by  ). 
 Formal   is used for   and  . 
Formal logic comes in two main forms:   (which operates on statements that are true or false and uses   such as "and", "or", "not" and "implies")  and   (which also operates on objects, predicates and relations and uses   such as "    is a  " and "There are    s that are  s"). 
  in logic is the process of   a new statement ( ) from other statements that are given and assumed to be true (the  ).  Proofs can be structured as proof  , in which nodes are labelled by sentences, and children nodes are connected to  parent nodes by  .
 Given a problem and a set of premises, problem-solving reduces to searching for a proof tree whose root node is labelled by a solution of the problem and whose leaf nodes are labelled by premises or  . In the case of  , problem-solving search can be performed by reasoning   from the premises or   from the problem.  In the more general case of the clausal form of  ,   is a single, axiom-free rule of inference, in which a problem is solved by proving a contradiction from premises that include the negation of the problem to be solved. 
 Inference in both Horn clause logic and first-order logic is  , and therefore  . However, backward reasoning with Horn clauses, which underpins computation in the   language  , is  . Moreover, its efficiency is competitive with computation in other   languages. 
  assigns a "degree of truth" between 0 and 1. It can therefore handle propositions that are vague and partially true. 
 , including logic programming with  , are designed to handle  . 
Other specialized versions of logic have been developed to describe many complex domains.
 Many problems in AI (including in reasoning, planning, learning, perception, and robotics) require the agent to operate with incomplete or uncertain information. AI researchers have devised a number of tools to solve these problems using methods from   theory and economics.  Precise mathematical tools have been developed that analyze how an agent can make choices and plan, using  ,  ,  and  .  These tools include models such as  ,  dynamic  ,    and  . 
  are a tool that can be used for   (using the   algorithm),    (using the  ),    (using  )  and   (using  ). 
 
Probabilistic algorithms can also be used for filtering, prediction, smoothing and finding explanations for streams of data, helping   systems to analyze processes that occur over time (e.g.,   or  ). The simplest AI applications can be divided into two types: classifiers (e.g., "if shiny then diamond"), on one hand, and controllers (e.g., "if diamond then pick up"), on the other hand.   are functions that use   to determine the closest match. They can be fine-tuned based on chosen examples using  . Each pattern (also called an " ") is labeled with a certain predefined class. All the observations combined with their class labels are known as a  . When a new observation is received, that observation is classified based on previous experience. 
 There are many kinds of classifiers in use. The   is the simplest and most widely used symbolic machine learning algorithm.    algorithm was the most widely used analogical AI until the mid-1990s, and   such as the   (SVM) displaced k-nearest neighbor in the 1990s. 
The   is reportedly the "most widely used learner"  at Google, due in part to its scalability. 
  are also used as classifiers. 
 An artificial neural network is based on a collection of nodes also known as  , which loosely model the   in a biological brain. It is trained to recognise patterns; once trained, it can recognise those patterns in fresh data. There is an input, at least one hidden layer of nodes and an output. Each node applies a function and once the   crosses its specified threshold, the data is transmitted to the next layer. A network is typically called a deep neural network if it has at least 2 hidden layers. 
 Learning algorithms for neural networks use   to choose the weights that will get the right output for each input during training. The most common training technique is the   algorithm. 
Neural networks learn to model complex relationships between inputs and outputs and   in data. In theory, a neural network can learn any function. 
 In   the signal passes in only one direction.    feed the output signal back into the input, which allows short-term memories of previous input events.   is the most successful network architecture for recurrent networks. 
 
use only a single layer of neurons, deep learning  uses multiple layers.
  strengthen the connection between neurons that are "close" to each other—this is especially important in  , where a local set of neurons must   before the network can identify an object. 
 Deep learning 
uses several layers of neurons between the network's inputs and outputs. The multiple layers can progressively extract higher-level features from the raw input. For example, in  , lower layers may identify edges, while higher layers may identify the concepts relevant to a human such as digits or letters or faces. 
 Deep learning has profoundly improved the performance of programs in many important subfields of artificial intelligence, including  ,  ,  ,   and others. The reason that deep learning performs so well in so many applications is not known as of 2023. 
The sudden success of deep learning in 2012–2015 did not occur because of some new discovery or theoretical breakthrough (deep neural networks and backpropagation had been described by many people, as far back as the 1950s) 
but because of two factors: the incredible increase in computer power (including the hundred-fold increase in speed by switching to  ) and the availability of vast amounts of training data, especially the giant   used for benchmark testing, such as  . 
  (GPT) are   that are based on the semantic relationships between words in sentences ( ). Text-based GPT models are pre-trained on a large corpus of text which can be from the internet. The pre-training consists in predicting the next   (a token being usually a word, subword, or punctuation). Throughout this pre-training, GPT models accumulate knowledge about the world, and can then generate human-like text by repeatedly predicting the next token. Typically, a subsequent training phase makes the model more truthful, useful and harmless, usually with a technique called   (RLHF). Current GPT models are still prone to generating falsehoods called " ", although this can be reduced with RLHF and quality data. They are used in  , which allow you to ask a question or request a task in simple text. 
 Current models and services include:   (formerly Bard),  ,  ,  ,   and  .    GPT models can process different types of data ( ) such as images, videos, sound and text. 
 In the late 2010s,   (GPUs) that were increasingly designed with AI-specific enhancements and used with specialized   software, had replaced previously used   (CPUs) as the dominant means for large-scale (commercial and academic)   models' training.  Historically, specialized languages, such as  ,  ,   and others, had been used.
 AI and machine learning technology is used in most of the essential applications of the 2020s, including:   (such as  ),  ,   (offered by  ,   or  ), driving  ,   ( ,  ),   (such as   or  ),   (including  ,   and  ),   ( ,  ),   ( 's   or  's   and  's  ) and   (used by  , Apple's   and  ).
 The application of AI in   and   has the potential to increase patient care and quality of life.  Through the lens of the  , medical professionals are ethically compelled to use AI, if applications can more accurately diagnose and treat patients.
 For medical research, AI is an important tool for processing and integrating  . This is particularly important for   and   development which use   imaging as a key technique in fabrication.  It has been suggested that AI can overcome discrepancies in funding allocated to different fields of research.  New AI tools can deepen the understanding of biomedically relevant pathways. For example,   (2021) demonstrated the ability to approximate, in hours rather than months, the 3D  .  In 2023, it was reported that AI-guided drug discovery helped find a class of antibiotics capable of killing two different types of drug-resistant bacteria.  In 2024, researchers used machine learning to accelerate the search for   drug treatments. Their aim was to identify compounds that block the clumping, or aggregation, of   (the protein that characterises Parkinson's disease). They were able to speed up the initial screening process ten-fold, and to reduce the cost by a thousand-fold. 
  programs have been used since the 1950s to demonstrate and test AI's most advanced techniques.    became the first computer chess-playing system to beat a reigning world chess champion,  , on 11 May 1997.  In 2011, in a     exhibition match,  's  ,  , defeated the two greatest   champions,   and  , by a significant margin.  In March 2016,   won 4 out of 5 games of   in a match with Go champion  , becoming the first  -playing system to beat a professional Go player without  . Then in 2017 it  , who was the best Go player in the world.  Other programs handle   games, such as the  -playing program  .    developed increasingly generalistic   models, such as with  , which could be trained to play chess, Go, or   games.  In 2019, DeepMind's AlphaStar achieved grandmaster level in  , a particularly challenging real-time strategy game that involves incomplete knowledge of what happens on the map.  In 2021, an AI agent competed in a PlayStation Gran Turismo competition, winning against four of the world's best Gran Turismo drivers using deep reinforcement learning. 
 Various countries are deploying AI military applications.  The main applications enhance  , communications, sensors, integration and interoperability.  Research is targeting intelligence collection and analysis, logistics, cyber operations, information operations, and semiautonomous and  .  AI technologies enable coordination of sensors and effectors, threat detection and identification, marking of enemy positions,  , coordination and deconfliction of distributed   between networked combat vehicles involving manned and unmanned teams.  AI was incorporated into military operations in Iraq and Syria. 
 In November 2023, US Vice President   disclosed a declaration signed by 31 nations to set guardrails for the military use of AI. The commitments include using legal reviews to ensure the compliance of military AI with international laws, and being cautious and transparent in the development of this technology. 
 In the early 2020s,   gained widespread prominence. In March 2023, 58% of U.S. adults had heard about   and 14% had tried it.  The increasing realism and ease-of-use of AI-based   generators such as  ,  , and   sparked a trend of   AI-generated photos. Widespread attention was gained by a fake photo of   wearing a white puffer coat, the fictional arrest of  , and a hoax of an attack on the  , as well as the usage in professional creative arts. 
 There are also thousands of successful AI applications used to solve specific problems for specific industries or institutions. In a 2017 survey, one in five companies reported they had incorporated "AI" in some offerings or processes.  A few examples are  , medical diagnosis, military logistics, applications that predict the result of judicial decisions,  , or supply chain management.
 In agriculture, AI has helped farmers identify areas that need irrigation, fertilization, pesticide treatments or increasing yield. Agronomists use AI to conduct research and development. AI has been used to predict the ripening time for crops such as tomatoes, monitor soil moisture, operate agricultural robots, conduct predictive analytics, classify livestock pig call emotions, automate greenhouses, detect diseases and pests, and save water.
 Artificial intelligence is used in astronomy to analyze increasing amounts of available data and applications, mainly for "classification, regression, clustering, forecasting, generation, discovery, and the development of new scientific insights" for example for discovering exoplanets, forecasting solar activity, and distinguishing between signals and instrumental effects in gravitational wave astronomy. It could also be used for activities in space such as space exploration, including analysis of data from space missions, real-time science decisions of spacecraft, space debris avoidance, and more autonomous operation.
 AI has potential benefits and potential risks. AI may be able to advance science and find solutions for serious problems:   of   hopes to "solve intelligence, and then use that to solve everything else".  However, as the use of AI has become widespread, several unintended consequences and risks have been identified.  In-production systems can sometimes not factor ethics and bias into their AI training processes, especially when the AI algorithms are inherently unexplainable in deep learning. 
 Machine-learning algorithms require large amounts of data. The techniques used to acquire this data have raised concerns about  ,   and  .
 Technology companies collect a wide range of data from their users, including online activity, geolocation data, video and audio. 
For example, in order to build   algorithms,   has recorded millions of private conversations and allowed   to listen to and transcribe some of them.  Opinions about this widespread   range from those who see it as a   to those for whom it is clearly   and a violation of the  . 
 AI developers argue that this is the only way to deliver valuable applications. and have developed several techniques that attempt to preserve privacy while still obtaining the data, such as  ,   and  .  Since 2016, some privacy experts, such as  , have begun to view privacy in terms of  .   wrote that experts have pivoted "from the question of 'what they know' to the question of 'what they're doing with it'." 
 Generative AI is often trained on unlicensed copyrighted works, including in domains such as images or computer code; the output is then used under the rationale of " ". Website owners who do not wish to have their copyrighted content AI-indexed or 'scraped' can add code to their site if they do not want their website to be indexed by a search engine, which is currently available through certain services such as  . Experts disagree about how well and under what circumstances this rationale will hold up in courts of law; relevant factors may include "the purpose and character of the use of the copyrighted work" and "the effect upon the potential market for the copyrighted work".  In 2023, leading authors (including   and  ) sued AI companies for using their work to train generative AI. 
 ,   and others use   to guide users to more content. These AI programs were given the goal of   user engagement (that is, the only goal was to keep people watching). The AI learned that users tended to choose  ,  , and extreme   content, and, to keep them watching, the AI recommended more of it. Users also tended to watch more content on the same subject, so the AI led people into   where they received multiple versions of the same misinformation.  This convinced many users that the misinformation was true, and ultimately undermined trust in institutions, the media and the government.  The AI program had correctly learned to maximize its goal, but the result was harmful to society. After the U.S. election in 2016, major technology companies took steps to mitigate the problem.
 In 2022,   began to create images, audio, video and text that are indistinguishable from real photographs, recordings, films or human writing. It is possible for bad actors to use this technology to create massive amounts of misinformation or propaganda.  AI pioneer   expressed concern about AI enabling "authoritarian leaders to manipulate their electorates" on a large scale, among other risks. 
 Machine learning applications will be biased if they learn from biased data.  The developers may not be aware that the bias exists. 
Bias can be introduced by the way   is selected and by the way a model is deployed.  If a biased algorithm is used to make decisions that can seriously   people (as it can in  ,  ,  ,   or  ) then the algorithm may cause  . 
  in machine learning is the study of how to prevent the harm caused by algorithmic bias. It has become serious area of academic study within AI. Researchers have discovered it is not always possible to define "fairness" in a way that satisfies all stakeholders. 
 On June 28, 2015,  's new image labeling feature mistakenly identified Jacky Alcine and a friend as "gorillas" because they were black. The system was trained on a dataset that contained very few images of black people,  a problem called "sample size disparity".  Google "fixed" this problem by preventing the system from labelling   as a "gorilla". Eight years later, in 2023, Google Photos still could not identify a gorilla, and neither could similar products from Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Amazon. 
  is a commercial program widely used by   to assess the likelihood of a   becoming a  .
In 2016,   at   discovered that COMPAS exhibited racial bias, despite the fact that the program was not told the races of the defendants. Although the error rate for both whites and blacks was calibrated equal at exactly 61%, the errors for each race were different—the system consistently overestimated the chance that a black person would re-offend and would underestimate the chance that a white person would not re-offend.  In 2017, several researchers  showed that it was mathematically impossible for COMPAS to accommodate all possible measures of fairness when the base rates of re-offense were different for whites and blacks in the data. 
 A program can make biased decisions even if the data does not explicitly mention a problematic feature (such as "race" or "gender"). The feature will correlate with other features (like "address", "shopping history" or "first name"), and the program will make the same decisions based on these features as it would on "race" or "gender". 
Moritz Hardt said "the most robust fact in this research area is that fairness through blindness doesn't work." 
 Criticism of COMPAS highlighted that machine learning models are designed to make "predictions" that are only valid if we assume that the future will resemble the past. If they are trained on data that includes the results of racist decisions in the past, machine learning models must predict that racist decisions will be made in the future. If an application then uses these predictions as  , some of these "recommendations" will likely be racist.  Thus, machine learning is not well suited to help make decisions in areas where there is hope that the future will be   than the past. It is necessarily descriptive and not proscriptive. 
 Bias and unfairness may go undetected because the developers are overwhelmingly white and male: among AI engineers, about 4% are black and 20% are women. 
 At its 2022   (ACM FAccT 2022), the  , in Seoul, South Korea, presented and published findings that recommend that until AI and robotics systems are demonstrated to be free of bias mistakes, they are unsafe, and the use of self-learning neural networks trained on vast, unregulated sources of flawed internet data should be curtailed. 
 Many AI systems are so complex that their designers cannot explain how they reach their decisions.  Particularly with  , in which there are a large amount of non-  relationships between inputs and outputs. But some popular explainability techniques exist. 
 It is impossible to be certain that a program is operating correctly if no one knows how exactly it works. There have been many cases where a machine learning program passed rigorous tests, but nevertheless learned something different than what the programmers intended. For example, a system that could identify skin diseases better than medical professionals was found to actually have a strong tendency to classify images with a   as "cancerous", because pictures of malignancies typically include a ruler to show the scale.  Another machine learning system designed to help effectively allocate medical resources was found to classify patients with asthma as being at "low risk" of dying from pneumonia. Having asthma is actually a severe risk factor, but since the patients having asthma would usually get much more medical care, they were relatively unlikely to die according to the training data. The correlation between asthma and low risk of dying from pneumonia was real, but misleading. 
 People who have been harmed by an algorithm's decision have a right to an explanation.  Doctors, for example, are expected to clearly and completely explain to their colleagues the reasoning behind any decision they make. Early drafts of the European Union's   in 2016 included an explicit statement that this right exists.  Industry experts noted that this is an unsolved problem with no solution in sight. Regulators argued that nevertheless the harm is real: if the problem has no solution, the tools should not be used. 
  established the   ("Explainable Artificial Intelligence") program in 2014 to try and solve these problems.  
 There are several possible solutions to the transparency problem. SHAP tried to solve the transparency problems by visualising the contribution of each feature to the output.  LIME can locally approximate a model with a simpler, interpretable model.    provides a large number of outputs in addition to the target classification. These other outputs can help developers deduce what the network has learned.   ,   and other   methods can allow developers to see what different layers of a deep network have learned and produce output that can suggest what the network is learning. 
 Artificial intelligence provides a number of tools that are useful to  , such as  ,  ,   or  .
 A lethal autonomous weapon is a machine that locates, selects and engages human targets without human supervision.  Widely available AI tools can be used by bad actors to develop inexpensive autonomous weapons and, if produced at scale, they are potentially  .  Even when used in conventional warfare, it is unlikely that they will be unable to reliably choose targets and could potentially  .  In 2014, 30 nations (including China) supported a ban on autonomous weapons under the  '  , however the   and others disagreed.  By 2015, over fifty countries were reported to be researching battlefield robots. 
 AI tools make it easier for   to efficiently control their citizens in several ways.   and   allow widespread  .  , operating this data, can   potential enemies of the state and prevent them from hiding.   can precisely target   and   for maximum effect.   and   aid in producing misinformation. Advanced AI can make authoritarian   more competitive than liberal and decentralized systems such as  . It lowers the cost and difficulty of   and  .  All these technologies have been available since 2020 or earlier—AI   are already being used for   in China. 
 There many other ways that AI is expected to help bad actors, some of which can not be foreseen. For example, machine-learning AI is able to design tens of thousands of toxic molecules in a matter of hours. 
 Training AI systems requires an enormous amount of computing power. Usually only   companies have the financial resources to make such investments. Smaller startups such as   and   end up buying access to   from   and   respectively. 
 Economists have frequently highlighted the risks of redundancies from AI, and speculated about unemployment if there is no adequate social policy for full employment. 
 In the past, technology has tended to increase rather than reduce total employment, but economists acknowledge that "we're in uncharted territory" with AI.  A survey of economists showed disagreement about whether the increasing use of robots and AI will cause a substantial increase in long-term  , but they generally agree that it could be a net benefit if   gains are  .  Risk estimates vary; for example, in the 2010s, Michael Osborne and   estimated 47% of U.S. jobs are at "high risk" of potential automation, while an OECD report classified only 9% of U.S. jobs as "high risk".  The methodology of speculating about future employment levels has been criticised as lacking evidential foundation, and for implying that technology, rather than social policy, creates unemployment, as opposed to redundancies.  In April 2023, it was reported that 70% of the jobs for Chinese video game illustrators had been eliminated by generative artificial intelligence. 
 Unlike previous waves of automation, many middle-class jobs may be eliminated by artificial intelligence;   stated in 2015 that "the worry that AI could do to white-collar jobs what steam power did to blue-collar ones during the Industrial Revolution" is "worth taking seriously".  Jobs at extreme risk range from   to fast food cooks, while job demand is likely to increase for care-related professions ranging from personal healthcare to the clergy. 
 From the early days of the development of artificial intelligence, there have been arguments, for example, those put forward by  , about whether tasks that can be done by computers actually should be done by them, given the difference between computers and humans, and between quantitative calculation and qualitative, value-based judgement. 
 It has been argued AI will become so powerful that humanity may irreversibly lose control of it. This could, as physicist   stated, " ".  This scenario has been common in science fiction, when a computer or robot suddenly develops a human-like "self-awareness" (or "sentience" or "consciousness") and becomes a malevolent character.  These sci-fi scenarios are misleading in several ways.
 First, AI does not require human-like " " to be an existential risk. Modern AI programs are given specific goals and use learning and intelligence to achieve them. Philosopher   argued that if one gives   goal to a sufficiently powerful AI, it may choose to destroy humanity to achieve it (he used the example of a  ).    gives the example of household robot that tries to find a way to kill its owner to prevent it from being unplugged, reasoning that "you can't fetch the coffee if you're dead."  In order to be safe for humanity, a   would have to be genuinely   with humanity's morality and values so that it is "fundamentally on our side". 
 Second,   argues that AI does not require a robot body or physical control to pose an existential risk. The essential parts of civilization are not physical. Things like  ,  ,  ,   and the   are made of  ; they exist because there are stories that billions of people believe. The current prevalence of   suggests that an AI could use language to convince people to believe anything, even to take actions that are destructive. 
 The opinions amongst experts and industry insiders are mixed, with sizable fractions both concerned and unconcerned by risk from eventual superintelligent AI.  Personalities such as  ,  , and   have expressed concern about existential risk from AI. 
AI pioneers including  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and   have expressed concerns about the risks of AI. In 2023, many leading AI experts issued the joint statement that "Mitigating the risk of extinction from AI should be a global priority alongside other societal-scale risks such as pandemics and nuclear war". 
 Other researchers, however, spoke in favor of a less dystopian view. AI pioneer   did not sign the joint statement, emphasising that in 95% of all cases, AI research is about making "human lives longer and healthier and easier."  While the tools that are now being used to improve lives can also be used by bad actors, "they can also be used against the bad actors."    also argued that "it's a mistake to fall for the doomsday hype on AI—and that regulators who do will only benefit vested interests."    "scoffs at his peers' dystopian scenarios of supercharged misinformation and even, eventually, human extinction."  In the early 2010s, experts argued that the risks are too distant in the future to warrant research or that humans will be valuable from the perspective of a superintelligent machine.  However, after 2016, the study of current and future risks and possible solutions became a serious area of research. 
 Friendly AI are machines that have been designed from the beginning to minimize risks and to make choices that benefit humans.  , who coined the term, argues that developing friendly AI should be a higher research priority: it may require a large investment and it must be completed before AI becomes an existential risk. 
 Machines with intelligence have the potential to use their intelligence to make ethical decisions. The field of machine ethics provides machines with ethical principles and procedures for resolving ethical dilemmas. 
The field of machine ethics is also called computational morality, 
and was founded at an   symposium in 2005. 
 Other approaches include  's "artificial moral agents"  and  's   for developing provably beneficial machines. 
 Active organizations in the AI open-source community include  ,   ,    and  .  Various AI models, such as  ,   or  , have been made open-weight,  meaning that their architecture and trained parameters (the "weights") are publicly available. Open-weight models can be freely  , which allows companies to specialize them with their own data and for their own use-case.  Open-weight models are useful for research and innovation, but can also be misused. Since they can be fine-tuned, any built-in security measure, such as objecting to harmful requests, can be trained away until it becomes ineffective. Some researchers warn that future AI models may develop dangerous capabilities (such as the potential to drastically facilitate  ), and that once released on the Internet, they can't be deleted everywhere if needed. They recommend pre-release audits and cost-benefit analyses. 
 Artificial Intelligence projects can have their ethical permissibility tested while designing, developing, and implementing an AI system. An AI framework such as the Care and Act Framework containing the SUM values—developed by the   tests projects in four main areas: 
 Other developments in ethical frameworks include those decided upon during the  , the Montreal Declaration for Responsible AI, and the IEEE's Ethics of Autonomous Systems initiative, among others;  however, these principles do not go without their criticisms, especially regards to the people chosen contributes to these frameworks. 
 Promotion of the wellbeing of the people and communities that these technologies affect requires consideration of the social and ethical implications at all stages of AI system design, development and implementation, and collaboration between job roles such as data scientists, product managers, data engineers, domain experts, and delivery managers. 
 The regulation of artificial intelligence is the development of public sector policies and laws for promoting and regulating artificial intelligence (AI); it is therefore related to the broader regulation of algorithms.  The regulatory and policy landscape for AI is an emerging issue in jurisdictions globally.  According to AI Index at  , the annual number of AI-related laws passed in the 127 survey countries jumped from one passed in 2016 to 37 passed in 2022 alone.  Between 2016 and 2020, more than 30 countries adopted dedicated strategies for AI.  Most EU member states had released national AI strategies, as had Canada, China, India, Japan, Mauritius, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, U.S., and Vietnam. Others were in the process of elaborating their own AI strategy, including Bangladesh, Malaysia and Tunisia.  The   was launched in June 2020, stating a need for AI to be developed in accordance with human rights and democratic values, to ensure public confidence and trust in the technology.   ,  , and   published a joint statement in November 2021 calling for a government commission to regulate AI.  In 2023, OpenAI leaders published recommendations for the governance of superintelligence, which they believe may happen in less than 10 years.  In 2023, the United Nations also launched an advisory body to provide recommendations on AI governance; the body comprises technology company executives, governments officials and academics. 
 In a 2022   survey, attitudes towards AI varied greatly by country; 78% of Chinese citizens, but only 35% of Americans, agreed that "products and services using AI have more benefits than drawbacks".  A 2023  /Ipsos poll found that 61% of Americans agree, and 22% disagree, that AI poses risks to humanity.  In a 2023   poll, 35% of Americans thought it "very important", and an additional 41% thought it "somewhat important", for the federal government to regulate AI, versus 13% responding "not very important" and 8% responding "not at all important". 
 In November 2023, the first global   was held in   in the UK to discuss the near and far term risks of AI and the possibility of mandatory and voluntary regulatory frameworks.  28 countries including the United States, China, and the European Union issued a declaration at the start of the summit, calling for international co-operation to manage the challenges and risks of artificial intelligence. 
 The study of mechanical or "formal" reasoning began with philosophers and mathematicians in antiquity. The study of logic led directly to  's  , which suggested that a machine, by shuffling symbols as simple as "0" and "1", could simulate any conceivable form of mathematical reasoning.  This, along with concurrent discoveries in  ,   and  , led researchers to consider the possibility of building an "electronic brain".  
They developed several areas of research that would become part of AI, 
such as   and   design for "artificial neurons" in 1943,  and Turing's influential 1950 paper ' ', which introduced the   and showed that "machine intelligence" was plausible. 
 The field of AI research was founded at   at   in 1956.  The attendees became the leaders of AI research in the 1960s.  They and their students produced programs that the press described as "astonishing":  computers were learning   strategies, solving word problems in algebra, proving   and speaking English.  Artificial intelligence laboratories were set up at a number of British and U.S. Universities in the latter 1950s and early 1960s. 
 Researchers in the 1960s and the 1970s were convinced that their methods would eventually succeed in creating a machine with   and considered this the goal of their field.    predicted, "machines will be capable, within twenty years, of doing any work a man can do".    agreed, writing, "within a generation ... the problem of creating 'artificial intelligence' will substantially be solved".  They had, however, underestimated the difficulty of the problem.  In 1974, both the U.S. and British governments cut off exploratory research in response to the   of   and ongoing pressure from the U.S. Congress to  .   's and  's book   was understood as proving that   would never be useful for solving real-world tasks, thus discrediting the approach altogether.  The " ", a period when obtaining funding for AI projects was difficult, followed. 
 In the early 1980s, AI research was revived by the commercial success of  ,  a form of AI program that simulated the knowledge and analytical skills of human experts. By 1985, the market for AI had reached over a billion dollars. At the same time, Japan's   project inspired the U.S. and British governments to restore funding for  .  However, beginning with the collapse of the   market in 1987, AI once again fell into disrepute, and a second, longer-lasting winter began. 
 Up to this point, most of AI's funding had gone to projects which used high level   to represent   like plans, goals, beliefs and known facts. In the 1980s, some researchers began to doubt that this approach would be able to imitate all the processes of human cognition, especially  ,  ,   and  ,  and began to look into "sub-symbolic" approaches.    rejected "representation" in general and focussed directly on engineering machines that move and survive.   ,   and others developed methods that handled incomplete and uncertain information by making reasonable guesses rather than precise logic.  But the most important development was the revival of " ", including neural network research, by   and others.  In 1990,   successfully showed that   can recognize handwritten digits, the first of many successful applications of neural networks. 
 AI gradually restored its reputation in the late 1990s and early 21st century by exploiting formal mathematical methods and by finding specific solutions to specific problems. This " " and "formal" focus allowed researchers to produce verifiable results and collaborate with other fields (such as  ,   and  ).  By 2000, solutions developed by AI researchers were being widely used, although in the 1990s they were rarely described as "artificial intelligence". 
However, several academic researchers became concerned that AI was no longer pursuing its original goal of creating versatile, fully intelligent machines. Beginning around 2002, they founded the subfield of   (or "AGI"), which had several well-funded institutions by the 2010s. 
  began to dominate industry benchmarks in 2012 and was adopted throughout the field. 
For many specific tasks, other methods were abandoned. 
Deep learning's success was based on both hardware improvements ( ,   ,  ) and access to   (including curated datasets,  such as  ). Deep learning's success led to an enormous increase in interest and funding in AI.  The amount of machine learning research (measured by total publications) increased by 50% in the years 2015–2019. 
 In 2016, issues of   and the misuse of technology were catapulted into center stage at machine learning conferences, publications vastly increased, funding became available, and many researchers re-focussed their careers on these issues. The   became a serious field of academic study. 
 In the late teens and early 2020s,   companies began to deliver programs that created enormous interest. In 2015,  , developed by  , beat the world champion  . The program was taught only the rules of the game and developed strategy by itself.   is a   that was released in 2020 by   and is capable of generating high-quality human-like text.  These programs, and others, inspired an aggressive  , where large companies began investing billions in AI research. According to 'AI Impacts', about $50 billion annually was invested in "AI" around 2022 in the U.S. alone and about 20% of the new U.S. Computer Science PhD graduates have specialized in "AI". 
About 800,000 "AI"-related U.S. job openings existed in 2022. 
  wrote in 1950 "I propose to consider the question 'can machines think'?"  He advised changing the question from whether a machine "thinks", to "whether or not it is possible for machinery to show intelligent behaviour".  He devised the Turing test, which measures the ability of a machine to simulate human conversation.  Since we can only observe the behavior of the machine, it does not matter if it is "actually" thinking or literally has a "mind". Turing notes that   but "it is usual to have a polite convention that everyone thinks" 
  and   agree with Turing that intelligence must be defined in terms of external behavior, not internal structure.  However, they are critical that the test requires the machine to imitate humans. "  texts," they wrote, "do not define the goal of their field as making 'machines that fly so exactly like   that they can fool other pigeons. "  AI founder   agreed, writing that "Artificial intelligence is not, by definition, simulation of human intelligence". 
 McCarthy defines intelligence as "the computational part of the ability to achieve goals in the world."  Another AI founder,   similarly describes it as "the ability to solve hard problems".  The leading AI textbook defines it as the study of agents that perceive their environment and take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.  These definitions view intelligence in terms of well-defined problems with well-defined solutions, where both the difficulty of the problem and the performance of the program are direct measures of the "intelligence" of the machine—and no other philosophical discussion is required, or may not even be possible.
 Another definition has been adopted by Google,  a major practitioner in the field of AI. This definition stipulates the ability of systems to synthesize information as the manifestation of intelligence, similar to the way it is defined in biological intelligence.
 No established unifying theory or   has guided AI research for most of its history.  The unprecedented success of statistical machine learning in the 2010s eclipsed all other approaches (so much so that some sources, especially in the business world, use the term "artificial intelligence" to mean "machine learning with neural networks"). This approach is mostly  ,   and  . Critics argue that these questions may have to be revisited by future generations of AI researchers.
  (or " ")  simulated the high-level conscious reasoning that people use when they solve puzzles, express legal reasoning and do mathematics. They were highly successful at "intelligent" tasks such as algebra or IQ tests. In the 1960s, Newell and Simon proposed the  : "A physical symbol system has the necessary and sufficient means of general intelligent action." 
 However, the symbolic approach failed on many tasks that humans solve easily, such as learning, recognizing an object or commonsense reasoning.   is the discovery that high-level "intelligent" tasks were easy for AI, but low level "instinctive" tasks were extremely difficult.  Philosopher   had   since the 1960s that human expertise depends on unconscious instinct rather than conscious symbol manipulation, and on having a "feel" for the situation, rather than explicit symbolic knowledge.  Although his arguments had been ridiculed and ignored when they were first presented, eventually, AI research came to agree with him. 
 The issue is not resolved:   reasoning can make many of the same inscrutable mistakes that human intuition does, such as  . Critics such as   argue continuing research into symbolic AI will still be necessary to attain general intelligence,  in part because sub-symbolic AI is a move away from  : it can be difficult or impossible to understand why a modern statistical AI program made a particular decision. The emerging field of   attempts to bridge the two approaches.
 "Neats" hope that intelligent behavior is described using simple, elegant principles (such as  ,  , or  ). "Scruffies" expect that it necessarily requires solving a large number of unrelated problems. Neats defend their programs with theoretical rigor, scruffies rely mainly on incremental testing to see if they work. This issue was actively discussed in the 1970s and 1980s,  but eventually was seen as irrelevant. Modern AI has elements of both.
 Finding a provably correct or optimal solution is   for many important problems.  Soft computing is a set of techniques, including  ,   and neural networks, that are tolerant of imprecision, uncertainty, partial truth and approximation. Soft computing was introduced in the late 1980s and most successful AI programs in the 21st century are examples of soft computing with neural networks.
 AI researchers are divided as to whether to pursue the goals of artificial general intelligence and   directly or to solve as many specific problems as possible (narrow AI) in hopes these solutions will lead indirectly to the field's long-term goals.  General intelligence is difficult to define and difficult to measure, and modern AI has had more verifiable successes by focusing on specific problems with specific solutions. The experimental sub-field of artificial general intelligence studies this area exclusively.
 The   does not know whether a machine can have a  ,   and  , in the same sense that human beings do. This issue considers the internal experiences of the machine, rather than its external behavior. Mainstream AI research considers this issue irrelevant because it does not affect the goals of the field: to build machines that can solve problems using intelligence.   and   add that "[t]he additional project of making a machine conscious in exactly the way humans are is not one that we are equipped to take on."  However, the question has become central to the philosophy of mind. It is also typically the central question at issue in  .
  identified two problems in understanding the mind, which he named the "hard" and "easy" problems of consciousness.  The easy problem is understanding how the brain processes signals, makes plans and controls behavior. The hard problem is explaining how this   or why it should feel like anything at all, assuming we are right in thinking that it truly does feel like something (Dennett's consciousness illusionism says this is an illusion). Human   is easy to explain, however, human   is difficult to explain. For example, it is easy to imagine a color-blind person who has learned to identify which objects in their field of view are red, but it is not clear what would be required for the person to  . 
 Computationalism is the position in the   that the human mind is an information processing system and that thinking is a form of computing. Computationalism argues that the relationship between mind and body is similar or identical to the relationship between software and hardware and thus may be a solution to the  . This philosophical position was inspired by the work of AI researchers and cognitive scientists in the 1960s and was originally proposed by philosophers   and  . 
 Philosopher   characterized this position as " ": "The appropriately programmed computer with the right inputs and outputs would thereby have a mind in exactly the same sense human beings have minds."  Searle counters this assertion with his Chinese room argument, which attempts to show that, even if a machine perfectly simulates human behavior, there is still no reason to suppose it also has a mind. 
 It is difficult or impossible to reliably evaluate whether an advanced   (has the ability to feel), and if so, to what degree.  But if there is a significant chance that a given machine can feel and suffer, then it may be entitled to certain rights or welfare protection measures, similarly to animals.    (a set of capacities related to high intelligence, such as discernment or  ) may provide another moral basis for AI rights.    are also sometimes proposed as a practical way to integrate autonomous agents into society. 
 In 2017, the European Union considered granting "electronic personhood" to some of the most capable AI systems. Similarly to the legal status of companies, it would have conferred rights but also responsibilities.  Critics argued in 2018 that granting rights to AI systems would downplay the importance of  , and that legislation should focus on user needs rather than speculative futuristic scenarios. They also noted that robots lacked the autonomy to take part to society on their own. 
 Progress in AI increased interest in the topic. Proponents of AI welfare and rights often argue that AI sentience, if it emerges, would be particularly easy to deny. They warn that this may be a   analogous to   or  , which could lead to   if sentient AI is created and carelessly exploited. 
 A   is a hypothetical agent that would possess intelligence far surpassing that of the brightest and most gifted human mind. 
 If research into   produced sufficiently intelligent software, it might be able to  . The improved software would be even better at improving itself, leading to what   called an " " and   called a " ". 
 However, technologies cannot improve exponentially indefinitely, and typically follow an  , slowing when they reach the physical limits of what the technology can do. 
 Robot designer  , cyberneticist  , and inventor   have predicted that humans and machines will merge in the future into   that are more capable and powerful than either. This idea, called transhumanism, has roots in   and  . 
  argues that "artificial intelligence is the next stage in evolution", an idea first proposed by  's " " as far back as 1863, and expanded upon by   in his book of the same name in 1998. 
 Thought-capable artificial beings have appeared as storytelling devices since antiquity,  and have been a persistent theme in  . 
 A common   in these works began with  's  , where a human creation becomes a threat to its masters. This includes such works as   and     (both 1968), with  , the murderous computer in charge of the   spaceship, as well as   (1984) and   (1999). In contrast, the rare loyal robots such as Gort from   (1951) and Bishop from   (1986) are less prominent in popular culture. 
  introduced the   in many books and stories, most notably the "Multivac" series about a super-intelligent computer of the same name. Asimov's laws are often brought up during lay discussions of machine ethics;  while almost all artificial intelligence researchers are familiar with Asimov's laws through popular culture, they generally consider the laws useless for many reasons, one of which is their ambiguity. 
 Several works use AI to force us to confront the fundamental question of what makes us human, showing us artificial beings that have  , and thus to suffer. This appears in  's  , the films   and  , as well as the novel  , by  . Dick considers the idea that our understanding of human subjectivity is altered by technology created with artificial intelligence. 
 The two most widely used textbooks in 2023. (See the  ).
 These were the four of the most widely used AI textbooks in 2008:
 Later editions.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:MyTalk

Content: People on Wikipedia can use this   to post a public message about edits made from the IP address you are currently using.
 Many IP addresses change periodically, and are often shared by several people. You may   or   to avoid future confusion with other logged out users. Creating an account also hides your IP address.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Artificial+intelligence

Content: edits articles recent contributors

URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_intelligence

Content: 
  ( ), in its broadest sense, is   exhibited by  , particularly  . It is a   in   that develops and studies methods and software which enable machines to   and uses   and intelligence to take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.  Such machines may be called AIs.
  is widely used  ,  , and science. Some high-profile applications include advanced   (e.g.,  );   (used by  ,  , and  ); interacting   (e.g.,  ,  , and  );   (e.g.,  );   and   tools (e.g.,   and  ); and   play and analysis in   (e.g.,   and  ).  However, many AI applications are not perceived as AI: "A lot of cutting edge AI has filtered into general applications, often without being called AI because once something becomes useful enough and common enough it's  ." 
  was the first person to conduct substantial research in the field that he called machine intelligence.  Artificial intelligence was founded as an academic discipline in 1956.  The field went through multiple cycles of optimism,  followed by periods of disappointment and loss of funding, known as  .  Funding and interest vastly increased after 2012 when   surpassed all previous AI techniques,  and after 2017 with the  .  This led to the   of the early 2020s, with companies, universities, and laboratories overwhelmingly based in the United States pioneering significant  . 
 The growing use of artificial intelligence in the 21st century is influencing   towards increased automation,  , and the   into various economic sectors and areas of life,  ,  , government, industry, and  . This raises questions about  ,  , and  , prompting discussions about   to ensure the  . 
 The various sub-fields of AI research are centered around particular goals and the use of particular tools. The traditional goals of AI research include  ,  ,  ,  ,  , perception, and support for  .   —the ability to complete any task performable by a human on an at least equal level—is among the field's long-term goals. 
 To reach these goals, AI researchers have adapted and integrated a wide range of techniques, including   and  ,  ,  , and methods based on  ,  , and  .  AI also draws upon  ,  ,  ,  , and other fields. 
 The general problem of simulating (or creating) intelligence has been broken into sub-problems. These consist of particular traits or capabilities that researchers expect an intelligent system to display. The traits described below have received the most attention and cover the scope of AI research. 
 Early researchers developed algorithms that imitated step-by-step reasoning that humans use when they solve puzzles or make logical  .  By the late 1980s and 1990s, methods were developed for dealing with   or incomplete information, employing concepts from   and  . 
 Many of these algorithms are insufficient for solving large reasoning problems because they experience a "combinatorial explosion": they became exponentially slower as the problems grew larger.  Even humans rarely use the step-by-step deduction that early AI research could model. They solve most of their problems using fast, intuitive judgments.  Accurate and efficient reasoning is an unsolved problem.
  and   allow AI programs to answer questions intelligently and make deductions about real-world facts. Formal knowledge representations are used in content-based indexing and retrieval,  scene interpretation,  clinical decision support,  knowledge discovery (mining "interesting" and actionable inferences from large  ),  and other areas. 
 A   is a body of knowledge represented in a form that can be used by a program. An   is the set of objects, relations, concepts, and properties used by a particular domain of knowledge.  Knowledge bases need to represent things such as: objects, properties, categories and relations between objects;  situations, events, states and time;  causes and effects;  knowledge about knowledge (what we know about what other people know);    (things that humans assume are true until they are told differently and will remain true even when other facts are changing);  and many other aspects and domains of knowledge.
 Among the most difficult problems in knowledge representation are: the breadth of commonsense knowledge (the set of atomic facts that the average person knows is enormous);  and the sub-symbolic form of most commonsense knowledge (much of what people know is not represented as "facts" or "statements" that they could express verbally).  There is also the difficulty of  , the problem of obtaining knowledge for AI applications. 
 An "agent" is anything that perceives and takes actions in the world. A   has goals or preferences and takes actions to make them happen.  In  , the agent has a specific goal.  In  , the agent has preferences—there are some situations it would prefer to be in, and some situations it is trying to avoid. The decision making agent assigns a number to each situation (called the " ") that measures how much the agent prefers it. For each possible action, it can calculate the " ": the   of all possible outcomes of the action, weighted by the probability that the outcome will occur. It can then choose the action with the maximum expected utility. 
 In  , the agent knows exactly what the effect of any action will be.  In most real-world problems, however, the agent may not be certain about the situation they are in (it is "unknown" or "unobservable") and it may not know for certain what will happen after each possible action (it is not "deterministic"). It must choose an action by making a probabilistic guess and then reassess the situation to see if the action worked. 
 In some problems, the agent's preferences may be uncertain, especially if there are other agents or humans involved. These can be learned (e.g., with  ) or the agent can seek information to improve its preferences.    can be used to weigh the value of exploratory or experimental actions.  The space of possible future actions and situations is typically   large, so the agents must take actions and evaluate situations while being uncertain what the outcome will be.
 A   has a   that describes the probability that a particular action will change the state in a particular way, and a   that supplies the utility of each state and the cost of each action. A   associates a decision with each possible state. The policy could be calculated (e.g., by  ), be  , or it can be learned. 
  describes rational behavior of multiple interacting agents, and is used in AI programs that make decisions that involve other agents. 
  is the study of programs that can improve their performance on a given task automatically.  It has been a part of AI from the beginning. 
 There are several kinds of machine learning.   analyzes a stream of data and finds patterns and makes predictions without any other guidance.    requires a human to label the input data first, and comes in two main varieties:   (where the program must learn to predict what category the input belongs in) and   (where the program must deduce a numeric function based on numeric input). 
 In   the agent is rewarded for good responses and punished for bad ones. The agent learns to choose responses that are classified as "good".    is when the knowledge gained from one problem is applied to a new problem.    is a type of machine learning that runs inputs through biologically inspired   for all of these types of learning. 
  can assess learners by  , by   (how much data is required), or by other notions of  . 
  (NLP)  allows programs to read, write and communicate in human languages such as  . Specific problems include  ,  ,  ,  ,   and  . 
 Early work, based on  's   and  , had difficulty with   unless restricted to small domains called " " (due to the common sense knowledge problem ).   believed that it was meaning and not grammar that was the key to understanding languages, and that   and not dictionaries should be the basis of computational language structure.
 Modern deep learning techniques for NLP include   (representing words, typically as   encoding their meaning),    (a deep learning architecture using an   mechanism),  and others.  In 2019,   (or "GPT") language models began to generate coherent text,  and by 2023 these models were able to get human-level scores on the  ,   test,   test, and many other real-world applications. 
  is the ability to use input from sensors (such as cameras, microphones, wireless signals, active  , sonar, radar, and  ) to deduce aspects of the world.   is the ability to analyze visual input. 
 The field includes  ,   ,   ,  ,  and  . 
  is an interdisciplinary umbrella that comprises systems that recognize, interpret, process or simulate human  .  For example, some   are programmed to speak conversationally or even to banter humorously; it makes them appear more sensitive to the emotional dynamics of human interaction, or to otherwise facilitate  .
 However, this tends to give naïve users an unrealistic conception of the intelligence of existing computer agents.  Moderate successes related to affective computing include textual   and, more recently,  , wherein AI classifies the affects displayed by a videotaped subject. 
 A machine with   should be able to solve a wide variety of problems with breadth and versatility similar to human intelligence. 
 AI research uses a wide variety of techniques to accomplish the goals above. 
 AI can solve many problems by intelligently searching through many possible solutions.  There are two very different kinds of search used in AI:   and  .
  searches through a tree of possible states to try to find a goal state.  For example,   algorithms search through trees of goals and subgoals, attempting to find a path to a target goal, a process called  . 
  are rarely sufficient for most real-world problems: the   (the number of places to search) quickly grows to  . The result is a search that is   or never completes.  " " or "rules of thumb" can help to prioritize choices that are more likely to reach a goal. 
  is used for   programs, such as chess or Go. It searches through a   of possible moves and counter-moves, looking for a winning position. 
  uses   to find a solution to a problem. It begins with some form of guess and refines it incrementally. 
  is a type of local search that optimizes a set of numerical parameters by incrementally adjusting them to minimize a  . Variants of gradient descent are commonly used to train neural networks. 
 Another type of local search is  , which aims to iteratively improve a set of candidate solutions by "mutating" and "recombining" them,   only the fittest to survive each generation. 
 Distributed search processes can coordinate via   algorithms. Two popular swarm algorithms used in search are   (inspired by bird  ) and   (inspired by  ). 
 Formal   is used for   and  . 
Formal logic comes in two main forms:   (which operates on statements that are true or false and uses   such as "and", "or", "not" and "implies")  and   (which also operates on objects, predicates and relations and uses   such as "    is a  " and "There are    s that are  s"). 
  in logic is the process of   a new statement ( ) from other statements that are given and assumed to be true (the  ).  Proofs can be structured as proof  , in which nodes are labelled by sentences, and children nodes are connected to  parent nodes by  .
 Given a problem and a set of premises, problem-solving reduces to searching for a proof tree whose root node is labelled by a solution of the problem and whose leaf nodes are labelled by premises or  . In the case of  , problem-solving search can be performed by reasoning   from the premises or   from the problem.  In the more general case of the clausal form of  ,   is a single, axiom-free rule of inference, in which a problem is solved by proving a contradiction from premises that include the negation of the problem to be solved. 
 Inference in both Horn clause logic and first-order logic is  , and therefore  . However, backward reasoning with Horn clauses, which underpins computation in the   language  , is  . Moreover, its efficiency is competitive with computation in other   languages. 
  assigns a "degree of truth" between 0 and 1. It can therefore handle propositions that are vague and partially true. 
 , including logic programming with  , are designed to handle  . 
Other specialized versions of logic have been developed to describe many complex domains.
 Many problems in AI (including in reasoning, planning, learning, perception, and robotics) require the agent to operate with incomplete or uncertain information. AI researchers have devised a number of tools to solve these problems using methods from   theory and economics.  Precise mathematical tools have been developed that analyze how an agent can make choices and plan, using  ,  ,  and  .  These tools include models such as  ,  dynamic  ,    and  . 
  are a tool that can be used for   (using the   algorithm),    (using the  ),    (using  )  and   (using  ). 
 
Probabilistic algorithms can also be used for filtering, prediction, smoothing and finding explanations for streams of data, helping   systems to analyze processes that occur over time (e.g.,   or  ). The simplest AI applications can be divided into two types: classifiers (e.g., "if shiny then diamond"), on one hand, and controllers (e.g., "if diamond then pick up"), on the other hand.   are functions that use   to determine the closest match. They can be fine-tuned based on chosen examples using  . Each pattern (also called an " ") is labeled with a certain predefined class. All the observations combined with their class labels are known as a  . When a new observation is received, that observation is classified based on previous experience. 
 There are many kinds of classifiers in use. The   is the simplest and most widely used symbolic machine learning algorithm.    algorithm was the most widely used analogical AI until the mid-1990s, and   such as the   (SVM) displaced k-nearest neighbor in the 1990s. 
The   is reportedly the "most widely used learner"  at Google, due in part to its scalability. 
  are also used as classifiers. 
 An artificial neural network is based on a collection of nodes also known as  , which loosely model the   in a biological brain. It is trained to recognise patterns; once trained, it can recognise those patterns in fresh data. There is an input, at least one hidden layer of nodes and an output. Each node applies a function and once the   crosses its specified threshold, the data is transmitted to the next layer. A network is typically called a deep neural network if it has at least 2 hidden layers. 
 Learning algorithms for neural networks use   to choose the weights that will get the right output for each input during training. The most common training technique is the   algorithm. 
Neural networks learn to model complex relationships between inputs and outputs and   in data. In theory, a neural network can learn any function. 
 In   the signal passes in only one direction.    feed the output signal back into the input, which allows short-term memories of previous input events.   is the most successful network architecture for recurrent networks. 
 
use only a single layer of neurons, deep learning  uses multiple layers.
  strengthen the connection between neurons that are "close" to each other—this is especially important in  , where a local set of neurons must   before the network can identify an object. 
 Deep learning 
uses several layers of neurons between the network's inputs and outputs. The multiple layers can progressively extract higher-level features from the raw input. For example, in  , lower layers may identify edges, while higher layers may identify the concepts relevant to a human such as digits or letters or faces. 
 Deep learning has profoundly improved the performance of programs in many important subfields of artificial intelligence, including  ,  ,  ,   and others. The reason that deep learning performs so well in so many applications is not known as of 2023. 
The sudden success of deep learning in 2012–2015 did not occur because of some new discovery or theoretical breakthrough (deep neural networks and backpropagation had been described by many people, as far back as the 1950s) 
but because of two factors: the incredible increase in computer power (including the hundred-fold increase in speed by switching to  ) and the availability of vast amounts of training data, especially the giant   used for benchmark testing, such as  . 
  (GPT) are   that are based on the semantic relationships between words in sentences ( ). Text-based GPT models are pre-trained on a large corpus of text which can be from the internet. The pre-training consists in predicting the next   (a token being usually a word, subword, or punctuation). Throughout this pre-training, GPT models accumulate knowledge about the world, and can then generate human-like text by repeatedly predicting the next token. Typically, a subsequent training phase makes the model more truthful, useful and harmless, usually with a technique called   (RLHF). Current GPT models are still prone to generating falsehoods called " ", although this can be reduced with RLHF and quality data. They are used in  , which allow you to ask a question or request a task in simple text. 
 Current models and services include:   (formerly Bard),  ,  ,  ,   and  .    GPT models can process different types of data ( ) such as images, videos, sound and text. 
 In the late 2010s,   (GPUs) that were increasingly designed with AI-specific enhancements and used with specialized   software, had replaced previously used   (CPUs) as the dominant means for large-scale (commercial and academic)   models' training.  Historically, specialized languages, such as  ,  ,   and others, had been used.
 AI and machine learning technology is used in most of the essential applications of the 2020s, including:   (such as  ),  ,   (offered by  ,   or  ), driving  ,   ( ,  ),   (such as   or  ),   (including  ,   and  ),   ( ,  ),   ( 's   or  's   and  's  ) and   (used by  , Apple's   and  ).
 The application of AI in   and   has the potential to increase patient care and quality of life.  Through the lens of the  , medical professionals are ethically compelled to use AI, if applications can more accurately diagnose and treat patients.
 For medical research, AI is an important tool for processing and integrating  . This is particularly important for   and   development which use   imaging as a key technique in fabrication.  It has been suggested that AI can overcome discrepancies in funding allocated to different fields of research.  New AI tools can deepen the understanding of biomedically relevant pathways. For example,   (2021) demonstrated the ability to approximate, in hours rather than months, the 3D  .  In 2023, it was reported that AI-guided drug discovery helped find a class of antibiotics capable of killing two different types of drug-resistant bacteria.  In 2024, researchers used machine learning to accelerate the search for   drug treatments. Their aim was to identify compounds that block the clumping, or aggregation, of   (the protein that characterises Parkinson's disease). They were able to speed up the initial screening process ten-fold, and to reduce the cost by a thousand-fold. 
  programs have been used since the 1950s to demonstrate and test AI's most advanced techniques.    became the first computer chess-playing system to beat a reigning world chess champion,  , on 11 May 1997.  In 2011, in a     exhibition match,  's  ,  , defeated the two greatest   champions,   and  , by a significant margin.  In March 2016,   won 4 out of 5 games of   in a match with Go champion  , becoming the first  -playing system to beat a professional Go player without  . Then in 2017 it  , who was the best Go player in the world.  Other programs handle   games, such as the  -playing program  .    developed increasingly generalistic   models, such as with  , which could be trained to play chess, Go, or   games.  In 2019, DeepMind's AlphaStar achieved grandmaster level in  , a particularly challenging real-time strategy game that involves incomplete knowledge of what happens on the map.  In 2021, an AI agent competed in a PlayStation Gran Turismo competition, winning against four of the world's best Gran Turismo drivers using deep reinforcement learning. 
 Various countries are deploying AI military applications.  The main applications enhance  , communications, sensors, integration and interoperability.  Research is targeting intelligence collection and analysis, logistics, cyber operations, information operations, and semiautonomous and  .  AI technologies enable coordination of sensors and effectors, threat detection and identification, marking of enemy positions,  , coordination and deconfliction of distributed   between networked combat vehicles involving manned and unmanned teams.  AI was incorporated into military operations in Iraq and Syria. 
 In November 2023, US Vice President   disclosed a declaration signed by 31 nations to set guardrails for the military use of AI. The commitments include using legal reviews to ensure the compliance of military AI with international laws, and being cautious and transparent in the development of this technology. 
 In the early 2020s,   gained widespread prominence. In March 2023, 58% of U.S. adults had heard about   and 14% had tried it.  The increasing realism and ease-of-use of AI-based   generators such as  ,  , and   sparked a trend of   AI-generated photos. Widespread attention was gained by a fake photo of   wearing a white puffer coat, the fictional arrest of  , and a hoax of an attack on the  , as well as the usage in professional creative arts. 
 There are also thousands of successful AI applications used to solve specific problems for specific industries or institutions. In a 2017 survey, one in five companies reported they had incorporated "AI" in some offerings or processes.  A few examples are  , medical diagnosis, military logistics, applications that predict the result of judicial decisions,  , or supply chain management.
 In agriculture, AI has helped farmers identify areas that need irrigation, fertilization, pesticide treatments or increasing yield. Agronomists use AI to conduct research and development. AI has been used to predict the ripening time for crops such as tomatoes, monitor soil moisture, operate agricultural robots, conduct predictive analytics, classify livestock pig call emotions, automate greenhouses, detect diseases and pests, and save water.
 Artificial intelligence is used in astronomy to analyze increasing amounts of available data and applications, mainly for "classification, regression, clustering, forecasting, generation, discovery, and the development of new scientific insights" for example for discovering exoplanets, forecasting solar activity, and distinguishing between signals and instrumental effects in gravitational wave astronomy. It could also be used for activities in space such as space exploration, including analysis of data from space missions, real-time science decisions of spacecraft, space debris avoidance, and more autonomous operation.
 AI has potential benefits and potential risks. AI may be able to advance science and find solutions for serious problems:   of   hopes to "solve intelligence, and then use that to solve everything else".  However, as the use of AI has become widespread, several unintended consequences and risks have been identified.  In-production systems can sometimes not factor ethics and bias into their AI training processes, especially when the AI algorithms are inherently unexplainable in deep learning. 
 Machine-learning algorithms require large amounts of data. The techniques used to acquire this data have raised concerns about  ,   and  .
 Technology companies collect a wide range of data from their users, including online activity, geolocation data, video and audio. 
For example, in order to build   algorithms,   has recorded millions of private conversations and allowed   to listen to and transcribe some of them.  Opinions about this widespread   range from those who see it as a   to those for whom it is clearly   and a violation of the  . 
 AI developers argue that this is the only way to deliver valuable applications. and have developed several techniques that attempt to preserve privacy while still obtaining the data, such as  ,   and  .  Since 2016, some privacy experts, such as  , have begun to view privacy in terms of  .   wrote that experts have pivoted "from the question of 'what they know' to the question of 'what they're doing with it'." 
 Generative AI is often trained on unlicensed copyrighted works, including in domains such as images or computer code; the output is then used under the rationale of " ". Website owners who do not wish to have their copyrighted content AI-indexed or 'scraped' can add code to their site if they do not want their website to be indexed by a search engine, which is currently available through certain services such as  . Experts disagree about how well and under what circumstances this rationale will hold up in courts of law; relevant factors may include "the purpose and character of the use of the copyrighted work" and "the effect upon the potential market for the copyrighted work".  In 2023, leading authors (including   and  ) sued AI companies for using their work to train generative AI. 
 ,   and others use   to guide users to more content. These AI programs were given the goal of   user engagement (that is, the only goal was to keep people watching). The AI learned that users tended to choose  ,  , and extreme   content, and, to keep them watching, the AI recommended more of it. Users also tended to watch more content on the same subject, so the AI led people into   where they received multiple versions of the same misinformation.  This convinced many users that the misinformation was true, and ultimately undermined trust in institutions, the media and the government.  The AI program had correctly learned to maximize its goal, but the result was harmful to society. After the U.S. election in 2016, major technology companies took steps to mitigate the problem.
 In 2022,   began to create images, audio, video and text that are indistinguishable from real photographs, recordings, films or human writing. It is possible for bad actors to use this technology to create massive amounts of misinformation or propaganda.  AI pioneer   expressed concern about AI enabling "authoritarian leaders to manipulate their electorates" on a large scale, among other risks. 
 Machine learning applications will be biased if they learn from biased data.  The developers may not be aware that the bias exists. 
Bias can be introduced by the way   is selected and by the way a model is deployed.  If a biased algorithm is used to make decisions that can seriously   people (as it can in  ,  ,  ,   or  ) then the algorithm may cause  . 
  in machine learning is the study of how to prevent the harm caused by algorithmic bias. It has become serious area of academic study within AI. Researchers have discovered it is not always possible to define "fairness" in a way that satisfies all stakeholders. 
 On June 28, 2015,  's new image labeling feature mistakenly identified Jacky Alcine and a friend as "gorillas" because they were black. The system was trained on a dataset that contained very few images of black people,  a problem called "sample size disparity".  Google "fixed" this problem by preventing the system from labelling   as a "gorilla". Eight years later, in 2023, Google Photos still could not identify a gorilla, and neither could similar products from Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Amazon. 
  is a commercial program widely used by   to assess the likelihood of a   becoming a  .
In 2016,   at   discovered that COMPAS exhibited racial bias, despite the fact that the program was not told the races of the defendants. Although the error rate for both whites and blacks was calibrated equal at exactly 61%, the errors for each race were different—the system consistently overestimated the chance that a black person would re-offend and would underestimate the chance that a white person would not re-offend.  In 2017, several researchers  showed that it was mathematically impossible for COMPAS to accommodate all possible measures of fairness when the base rates of re-offense were different for whites and blacks in the data. 
 A program can make biased decisions even if the data does not explicitly mention a problematic feature (such as "race" or "gender"). The feature will correlate with other features (like "address", "shopping history" or "first name"), and the program will make the same decisions based on these features as it would on "race" or "gender". 
Moritz Hardt said "the most robust fact in this research area is that fairness through blindness doesn't work." 
 Criticism of COMPAS highlighted that machine learning models are designed to make "predictions" that are only valid if we assume that the future will resemble the past. If they are trained on data that includes the results of racist decisions in the past, machine learning models must predict that racist decisions will be made in the future. If an application then uses these predictions as  , some of these "recommendations" will likely be racist.  Thus, machine learning is not well suited to help make decisions in areas where there is hope that the future will be   than the past. It is necessarily descriptive and not proscriptive. 
 Bias and unfairness may go undetected because the developers are overwhelmingly white and male: among AI engineers, about 4% are black and 20% are women. 
 At its 2022   (ACM FAccT 2022), the  , in Seoul, South Korea, presented and published findings that recommend that until AI and robotics systems are demonstrated to be free of bias mistakes, they are unsafe, and the use of self-learning neural networks trained on vast, unregulated sources of flawed internet data should be curtailed. 
 Many AI systems are so complex that their designers cannot explain how they reach their decisions.  Particularly with  , in which there are a large amount of non-  relationships between inputs and outputs. But some popular explainability techniques exist. 
 It is impossible to be certain that a program is operating correctly if no one knows how exactly it works. There have been many cases where a machine learning program passed rigorous tests, but nevertheless learned something different than what the programmers intended. For example, a system that could identify skin diseases better than medical professionals was found to actually have a strong tendency to classify images with a   as "cancerous", because pictures of malignancies typically include a ruler to show the scale.  Another machine learning system designed to help effectively allocate medical resources was found to classify patients with asthma as being at "low risk" of dying from pneumonia. Having asthma is actually a severe risk factor, but since the patients having asthma would usually get much more medical care, they were relatively unlikely to die according to the training data. The correlation between asthma and low risk of dying from pneumonia was real, but misleading. 
 People who have been harmed by an algorithm's decision have a right to an explanation.  Doctors, for example, are expected to clearly and completely explain to their colleagues the reasoning behind any decision they make. Early drafts of the European Union's   in 2016 included an explicit statement that this right exists.  Industry experts noted that this is an unsolved problem with no solution in sight. Regulators argued that nevertheless the harm is real: if the problem has no solution, the tools should not be used. 
  established the   ("Explainable Artificial Intelligence") program in 2014 to try and solve these problems.  
 There are several possible solutions to the transparency problem. SHAP tried to solve the transparency problems by visualising the contribution of each feature to the output.  LIME can locally approximate a model with a simpler, interpretable model.    provides a large number of outputs in addition to the target classification. These other outputs can help developers deduce what the network has learned.   ,   and other   methods can allow developers to see what different layers of a deep network have learned and produce output that can suggest what the network is learning. 
 Artificial intelligence provides a number of tools that are useful to  , such as  ,  ,   or  .
 A lethal autonomous weapon is a machine that locates, selects and engages human targets without human supervision.  Widely available AI tools can be used by bad actors to develop inexpensive autonomous weapons and, if produced at scale, they are potentially  .  Even when used in conventional warfare, it is unlikely that they will be unable to reliably choose targets and could potentially  .  In 2014, 30 nations (including China) supported a ban on autonomous weapons under the  '  , however the   and others disagreed.  By 2015, over fifty countries were reported to be researching battlefield robots. 
 AI tools make it easier for   to efficiently control their citizens in several ways.   and   allow widespread  .  , operating this data, can   potential enemies of the state and prevent them from hiding.   can precisely target   and   for maximum effect.   and   aid in producing misinformation. Advanced AI can make authoritarian   more competitive than liberal and decentralized systems such as  . It lowers the cost and difficulty of   and  .  All these technologies have been available since 2020 or earlier—AI   are already being used for   in China. 
 There many other ways that AI is expected to help bad actors, some of which can not be foreseen. For example, machine-learning AI is able to design tens of thousands of toxic molecules in a matter of hours. 
 Training AI systems requires an enormous amount of computing power. Usually only   companies have the financial resources to make such investments. Smaller startups such as   and   end up buying access to   from   and   respectively. 
 Economists have frequently highlighted the risks of redundancies from AI, and speculated about unemployment if there is no adequate social policy for full employment. 
 In the past, technology has tended to increase rather than reduce total employment, but economists acknowledge that "we're in uncharted territory" with AI.  A survey of economists showed disagreement about whether the increasing use of robots and AI will cause a substantial increase in long-term  , but they generally agree that it could be a net benefit if   gains are  .  Risk estimates vary; for example, in the 2010s, Michael Osborne and   estimated 47% of U.S. jobs are at "high risk" of potential automation, while an OECD report classified only 9% of U.S. jobs as "high risk".  The methodology of speculating about future employment levels has been criticised as lacking evidential foundation, and for implying that technology, rather than social policy, creates unemployment, as opposed to redundancies.  In April 2023, it was reported that 70% of the jobs for Chinese video game illustrators had been eliminated by generative artificial intelligence. 
 Unlike previous waves of automation, many middle-class jobs may be eliminated by artificial intelligence;   stated in 2015 that "the worry that AI could do to white-collar jobs what steam power did to blue-collar ones during the Industrial Revolution" is "worth taking seriously".  Jobs at extreme risk range from   to fast food cooks, while job demand is likely to increase for care-related professions ranging from personal healthcare to the clergy. 
 From the early days of the development of artificial intelligence, there have been arguments, for example, those put forward by  , about whether tasks that can be done by computers actually should be done by them, given the difference between computers and humans, and between quantitative calculation and qualitative, value-based judgement. 
 It has been argued AI will become so powerful that humanity may irreversibly lose control of it. This could, as physicist   stated, " ".  This scenario has been common in science fiction, when a computer or robot suddenly develops a human-like "self-awareness" (or "sentience" or "consciousness") and becomes a malevolent character.  These sci-fi scenarios are misleading in several ways.
 First, AI does not require human-like " " to be an existential risk. Modern AI programs are given specific goals and use learning and intelligence to achieve them. Philosopher   argued that if one gives   goal to a sufficiently powerful AI, it may choose to destroy humanity to achieve it (he used the example of a  ).    gives the example of household robot that tries to find a way to kill its owner to prevent it from being unplugged, reasoning that "you can't fetch the coffee if you're dead."  In order to be safe for humanity, a   would have to be genuinely   with humanity's morality and values so that it is "fundamentally on our side". 
 Second,   argues that AI does not require a robot body or physical control to pose an existential risk. The essential parts of civilization are not physical. Things like  ,  ,  ,   and the   are made of  ; they exist because there are stories that billions of people believe. The current prevalence of   suggests that an AI could use language to convince people to believe anything, even to take actions that are destructive. 
 The opinions amongst experts and industry insiders are mixed, with sizable fractions both concerned and unconcerned by risk from eventual superintelligent AI.  Personalities such as  ,  , and   have expressed concern about existential risk from AI. 
AI pioneers including  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and   have expressed concerns about the risks of AI. In 2023, many leading AI experts issued the joint statement that "Mitigating the risk of extinction from AI should be a global priority alongside other societal-scale risks such as pandemics and nuclear war". 
 Other researchers, however, spoke in favor of a less dystopian view. AI pioneer   did not sign the joint statement, emphasising that in 95% of all cases, AI research is about making "human lives longer and healthier and easier."  While the tools that are now being used to improve lives can also be used by bad actors, "they can also be used against the bad actors."    also argued that "it's a mistake to fall for the doomsday hype on AI—and that regulators who do will only benefit vested interests."    "scoffs at his peers' dystopian scenarios of supercharged misinformation and even, eventually, human extinction."  In the early 2010s, experts argued that the risks are too distant in the future to warrant research or that humans will be valuable from the perspective of a superintelligent machine.  However, after 2016, the study of current and future risks and possible solutions became a serious area of research. 
 Friendly AI are machines that have been designed from the beginning to minimize risks and to make choices that benefit humans.  , who coined the term, argues that developing friendly AI should be a higher research priority: it may require a large investment and it must be completed before AI becomes an existential risk. 
 Machines with intelligence have the potential to use their intelligence to make ethical decisions. The field of machine ethics provides machines with ethical principles and procedures for resolving ethical dilemmas. 
The field of machine ethics is also called computational morality, 
and was founded at an   symposium in 2005. 
 Other approaches include  's "artificial moral agents"  and  's   for developing provably beneficial machines. 
 Active organizations in the AI open-source community include  ,   ,    and  .  Various AI models, such as  ,   or  , have been made open-weight,  meaning that their architecture and trained parameters (the "weights") are publicly available. Open-weight models can be freely  , which allows companies to specialize them with their own data and for their own use-case.  Open-weight models are useful for research and innovation, but can also be misused. Since they can be fine-tuned, any built-in security measure, such as objecting to harmful requests, can be trained away until it becomes ineffective. Some researchers warn that future AI models may develop dangerous capabilities (such as the potential to drastically facilitate  ), and that once released on the Internet, they can't be deleted everywhere if needed. They recommend pre-release audits and cost-benefit analyses. 
 Artificial Intelligence projects can have their ethical permissibility tested while designing, developing, and implementing an AI system. An AI framework such as the Care and Act Framework containing the SUM values—developed by the   tests projects in four main areas: 
 Other developments in ethical frameworks include those decided upon during the  , the Montreal Declaration for Responsible AI, and the IEEE's Ethics of Autonomous Systems initiative, among others;  however, these principles do not go without their criticisms, especially regards to the people chosen contributes to these frameworks. 
 Promotion of the wellbeing of the people and communities that these technologies affect requires consideration of the social and ethical implications at all stages of AI system design, development and implementation, and collaboration between job roles such as data scientists, product managers, data engineers, domain experts, and delivery managers. 
 The regulation of artificial intelligence is the development of public sector policies and laws for promoting and regulating artificial intelligence (AI); it is therefore related to the broader regulation of algorithms.  The regulatory and policy landscape for AI is an emerging issue in jurisdictions globally.  According to AI Index at  , the annual number of AI-related laws passed in the 127 survey countries jumped from one passed in 2016 to 37 passed in 2022 alone.  Between 2016 and 2020, more than 30 countries adopted dedicated strategies for AI.  Most EU member states had released national AI strategies, as had Canada, China, India, Japan, Mauritius, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, U.S., and Vietnam. Others were in the process of elaborating their own AI strategy, including Bangladesh, Malaysia and Tunisia.  The   was launched in June 2020, stating a need for AI to be developed in accordance with human rights and democratic values, to ensure public confidence and trust in the technology.   ,  , and   published a joint statement in November 2021 calling for a government commission to regulate AI.  In 2023, OpenAI leaders published recommendations for the governance of superintelligence, which they believe may happen in less than 10 years.  In 2023, the United Nations also launched an advisory body to provide recommendations on AI governance; the body comprises technology company executives, governments officials and academics. 
 In a 2022   survey, attitudes towards AI varied greatly by country; 78% of Chinese citizens, but only 35% of Americans, agreed that "products and services using AI have more benefits than drawbacks".  A 2023  /Ipsos poll found that 61% of Americans agree, and 22% disagree, that AI poses risks to humanity.  In a 2023   poll, 35% of Americans thought it "very important", and an additional 41% thought it "somewhat important", for the federal government to regulate AI, versus 13% responding "not very important" and 8% responding "not at all important". 
 In November 2023, the first global   was held in   in the UK to discuss the near and far term risks of AI and the possibility of mandatory and voluntary regulatory frameworks.  28 countries including the United States, China, and the European Union issued a declaration at the start of the summit, calling for international co-operation to manage the challenges and risks of artificial intelligence. 
 The study of mechanical or "formal" reasoning began with philosophers and mathematicians in antiquity. The study of logic led directly to  's  , which suggested that a machine, by shuffling symbols as simple as "0" and "1", could simulate any conceivable form of mathematical reasoning.  This, along with concurrent discoveries in  ,   and  , led researchers to consider the possibility of building an "electronic brain".  
They developed several areas of research that would become part of AI, 
such as   and   design for "artificial neurons" in 1943,  and Turing's influential 1950 paper ' ', which introduced the   and showed that "machine intelligence" was plausible. 
 The field of AI research was founded at   at   in 1956.  The attendees became the leaders of AI research in the 1960s.  They and their students produced programs that the press described as "astonishing":  computers were learning   strategies, solving word problems in algebra, proving   and speaking English.  Artificial intelligence laboratories were set up at a number of British and U.S. Universities in the latter 1950s and early 1960s. 
 Researchers in the 1960s and the 1970s were convinced that their methods would eventually succeed in creating a machine with   and considered this the goal of their field.    predicted, "machines will be capable, within twenty years, of doing any work a man can do".    agreed, writing, "within a generation ... the problem of creating 'artificial intelligence' will substantially be solved".  They had, however, underestimated the difficulty of the problem.  In 1974, both the U.S. and British governments cut off exploratory research in response to the   of   and ongoing pressure from the U.S. Congress to  .   's and  's book   was understood as proving that   would never be useful for solving real-world tasks, thus discrediting the approach altogether.  The " ", a period when obtaining funding for AI projects was difficult, followed. 
 In the early 1980s, AI research was revived by the commercial success of  ,  a form of AI program that simulated the knowledge and analytical skills of human experts. By 1985, the market for AI had reached over a billion dollars. At the same time, Japan's   project inspired the U.S. and British governments to restore funding for  .  However, beginning with the collapse of the   market in 1987, AI once again fell into disrepute, and a second, longer-lasting winter began. 
 Up to this point, most of AI's funding had gone to projects which used high level   to represent   like plans, goals, beliefs and known facts. In the 1980s, some researchers began to doubt that this approach would be able to imitate all the processes of human cognition, especially  ,  ,   and  ,  and began to look into "sub-symbolic" approaches.    rejected "representation" in general and focussed directly on engineering machines that move and survive.   ,   and others developed methods that handled incomplete and uncertain information by making reasonable guesses rather than precise logic.  But the most important development was the revival of " ", including neural network research, by   and others.  In 1990,   successfully showed that   can recognize handwritten digits, the first of many successful applications of neural networks. 
 AI gradually restored its reputation in the late 1990s and early 21st century by exploiting formal mathematical methods and by finding specific solutions to specific problems. This " " and "formal" focus allowed researchers to produce verifiable results and collaborate with other fields (such as  ,   and  ).  By 2000, solutions developed by AI researchers were being widely used, although in the 1990s they were rarely described as "artificial intelligence". 
However, several academic researchers became concerned that AI was no longer pursuing its original goal of creating versatile, fully intelligent machines. Beginning around 2002, they founded the subfield of   (or "AGI"), which had several well-funded institutions by the 2010s. 
  began to dominate industry benchmarks in 2012 and was adopted throughout the field. 
For many specific tasks, other methods were abandoned. 
Deep learning's success was based on both hardware improvements ( ,   ,  ) and access to   (including curated datasets,  such as  ). Deep learning's success led to an enormous increase in interest and funding in AI.  The amount of machine learning research (measured by total publications) increased by 50% in the years 2015–2019. 
 In 2016, issues of   and the misuse of technology were catapulted into center stage at machine learning conferences, publications vastly increased, funding became available, and many researchers re-focussed their careers on these issues. The   became a serious field of academic study. 
 In the late teens and early 2020s,   companies began to deliver programs that created enormous interest. In 2015,  , developed by  , beat the world champion  . The program was taught only the rules of the game and developed strategy by itself.   is a   that was released in 2020 by   and is capable of generating high-quality human-like text.  These programs, and others, inspired an aggressive  , where large companies began investing billions in AI research. According to 'AI Impacts', about $50 billion annually was invested in "AI" around 2022 in the U.S. alone and about 20% of the new U.S. Computer Science PhD graduates have specialized in "AI". 
About 800,000 "AI"-related U.S. job openings existed in 2022. 
  wrote in 1950 "I propose to consider the question 'can machines think'?"  He advised changing the question from whether a machine "thinks", to "whether or not it is possible for machinery to show intelligent behaviour".  He devised the Turing test, which measures the ability of a machine to simulate human conversation.  Since we can only observe the behavior of the machine, it does not matter if it is "actually" thinking or literally has a "mind". Turing notes that   but "it is usual to have a polite convention that everyone thinks" 
  and   agree with Turing that intelligence must be defined in terms of external behavior, not internal structure.  However, they are critical that the test requires the machine to imitate humans. "  texts," they wrote, "do not define the goal of their field as making 'machines that fly so exactly like   that they can fool other pigeons. "  AI founder   agreed, writing that "Artificial intelligence is not, by definition, simulation of human intelligence". 
 McCarthy defines intelligence as "the computational part of the ability to achieve goals in the world."  Another AI founder,   similarly describes it as "the ability to solve hard problems".  The leading AI textbook defines it as the study of agents that perceive their environment and take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.  These definitions view intelligence in terms of well-defined problems with well-defined solutions, where both the difficulty of the problem and the performance of the program are direct measures of the "intelligence" of the machine—and no other philosophical discussion is required, or may not even be possible.
 Another definition has been adopted by Google,  a major practitioner in the field of AI. This definition stipulates the ability of systems to synthesize information as the manifestation of intelligence, similar to the way it is defined in biological intelligence.
 No established unifying theory or   has guided AI research for most of its history.  The unprecedented success of statistical machine learning in the 2010s eclipsed all other approaches (so much so that some sources, especially in the business world, use the term "artificial intelligence" to mean "machine learning with neural networks"). This approach is mostly  ,   and  . Critics argue that these questions may have to be revisited by future generations of AI researchers.
  (or " ")  simulated the high-level conscious reasoning that people use when they solve puzzles, express legal reasoning and do mathematics. They were highly successful at "intelligent" tasks such as algebra or IQ tests. In the 1960s, Newell and Simon proposed the  : "A physical symbol system has the necessary and sufficient means of general intelligent action." 
 However, the symbolic approach failed on many tasks that humans solve easily, such as learning, recognizing an object or commonsense reasoning.   is the discovery that high-level "intelligent" tasks were easy for AI, but low level "instinctive" tasks were extremely difficult.  Philosopher   had   since the 1960s that human expertise depends on unconscious instinct rather than conscious symbol manipulation, and on having a "feel" for the situation, rather than explicit symbolic knowledge.  Although his arguments had been ridiculed and ignored when they were first presented, eventually, AI research came to agree with him. 
 The issue is not resolved:   reasoning can make many of the same inscrutable mistakes that human intuition does, such as  . Critics such as   argue continuing research into symbolic AI will still be necessary to attain general intelligence,  in part because sub-symbolic AI is a move away from  : it can be difficult or impossible to understand why a modern statistical AI program made a particular decision. The emerging field of   attempts to bridge the two approaches.
 "Neats" hope that intelligent behavior is described using simple, elegant principles (such as  ,  , or  ). "Scruffies" expect that it necessarily requires solving a large number of unrelated problems. Neats defend their programs with theoretical rigor, scruffies rely mainly on incremental testing to see if they work. This issue was actively discussed in the 1970s and 1980s,  but eventually was seen as irrelevant. Modern AI has elements of both.
 Finding a provably correct or optimal solution is   for many important problems.  Soft computing is a set of techniques, including  ,   and neural networks, that are tolerant of imprecision, uncertainty, partial truth and approximation. Soft computing was introduced in the late 1980s and most successful AI programs in the 21st century are examples of soft computing with neural networks.
 AI researchers are divided as to whether to pursue the goals of artificial general intelligence and   directly or to solve as many specific problems as possible (narrow AI) in hopes these solutions will lead indirectly to the field's long-term goals.  General intelligence is difficult to define and difficult to measure, and modern AI has had more verifiable successes by focusing on specific problems with specific solutions. The experimental sub-field of artificial general intelligence studies this area exclusively.
 The   does not know whether a machine can have a  ,   and  , in the same sense that human beings do. This issue considers the internal experiences of the machine, rather than its external behavior. Mainstream AI research considers this issue irrelevant because it does not affect the goals of the field: to build machines that can solve problems using intelligence.   and   add that "[t]he additional project of making a machine conscious in exactly the way humans are is not one that we are equipped to take on."  However, the question has become central to the philosophy of mind. It is also typically the central question at issue in  .
  identified two problems in understanding the mind, which he named the "hard" and "easy" problems of consciousness.  The easy problem is understanding how the brain processes signals, makes plans and controls behavior. The hard problem is explaining how this   or why it should feel like anything at all, assuming we are right in thinking that it truly does feel like something (Dennett's consciousness illusionism says this is an illusion). Human   is easy to explain, however, human   is difficult to explain. For example, it is easy to imagine a color-blind person who has learned to identify which objects in their field of view are red, but it is not clear what would be required for the person to  . 
 Computationalism is the position in the   that the human mind is an information processing system and that thinking is a form of computing. Computationalism argues that the relationship between mind and body is similar or identical to the relationship between software and hardware and thus may be a solution to the  . This philosophical position was inspired by the work of AI researchers and cognitive scientists in the 1960s and was originally proposed by philosophers   and  . 
 Philosopher   characterized this position as " ": "The appropriately programmed computer with the right inputs and outputs would thereby have a mind in exactly the same sense human beings have minds."  Searle counters this assertion with his Chinese room argument, which attempts to show that, even if a machine perfectly simulates human behavior, there is still no reason to suppose it also has a mind. 
 It is difficult or impossible to reliably evaluate whether an advanced   (has the ability to feel), and if so, to what degree.  But if there is a significant chance that a given machine can feel and suffer, then it may be entitled to certain rights or welfare protection measures, similarly to animals.    (a set of capacities related to high intelligence, such as discernment or  ) may provide another moral basis for AI rights.    are also sometimes proposed as a practical way to integrate autonomous agents into society. 
 In 2017, the European Union considered granting "electronic personhood" to some of the most capable AI systems. Similarly to the legal status of companies, it would have conferred rights but also responsibilities.  Critics argued in 2018 that granting rights to AI systems would downplay the importance of  , and that legislation should focus on user needs rather than speculative futuristic scenarios. They also noted that robots lacked the autonomy to take part to society on their own. 
 Progress in AI increased interest in the topic. Proponents of AI welfare and rights often argue that AI sentience, if it emerges, would be particularly easy to deny. They warn that this may be a   analogous to   or  , which could lead to   if sentient AI is created and carelessly exploited. 
 A   is a hypothetical agent that would possess intelligence far surpassing that of the brightest and most gifted human mind. 
 If research into   produced sufficiently intelligent software, it might be able to  . The improved software would be even better at improving itself, leading to what   called an " " and   called a " ". 
 However, technologies cannot improve exponentially indefinitely, and typically follow an  , slowing when they reach the physical limits of what the technology can do. 
 Robot designer  , cyberneticist  , and inventor   have predicted that humans and machines will merge in the future into   that are more capable and powerful than either. This idea, called transhumanism, has roots in   and  . 
  argues that "artificial intelligence is the next stage in evolution", an idea first proposed by  's " " as far back as 1863, and expanded upon by   in his book of the same name in 1998. 
 Thought-capable artificial beings have appeared as storytelling devices since antiquity,  and have been a persistent theme in  . 
 A common   in these works began with  's  , where a human creation becomes a threat to its masters. This includes such works as   and     (both 1968), with  , the murderous computer in charge of the   spaceship, as well as   (1984) and   (1999). In contrast, the rare loyal robots such as Gort from   (1951) and Bishop from   (1986) are less prominent in popular culture. 
  introduced the   in many books and stories, most notably the "Multivac" series about a super-intelligent computer of the same name. Asimov's laws are often brought up during lay discussions of machine ethics;  while almost all artificial intelligence researchers are familiar with Asimov's laws through popular culture, they generally consider the laws useless for many reasons, one of which is their ambiguity. 
 Several works use AI to force us to confront the fundamental question of what makes us human, showing us artificial beings that have  , and thus to suffer. This appears in  's  , the films   and  , as well as the novel  , by  . Dick considers the idea that our understanding of human subjectivity is altered by technology created with artificial intelligence. 
 The two most widely used textbooks in 2023. (See the  ).
 These were the four of the most widely used AI textbooks in 2008:
 Later editions.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Search

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:MyContributions

Content: No changes were found matching these criteria.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:File_upload_wizard

Content: Thank you for offering to contribute an image or other media file for use on Wikipedia. This wizard will guide you through a questionnaire prompting you for the appropriate copyright and sourcing information for each file. Please ensure you understand   and the   before proceeding.
 
 Uploads to  
 
 
 Uploads locally to Wikipedia; must comply with the   criteria
 
 
 Sorry, in order to use this uploading script, JavaScript must be enabled. You can still use the plain   page to upload files to the English Wikipedia without JavaScript.
 
 Sorry, in order to use this uploading script and to upload files, you need to be logged in with your named account. Please   and then try again.
 
 Sorry, in order to upload files on the English Wikipedia, you need to have a  . Normally, your account will become confirmed automatically once you have made 10 edits and four days have passed since you created it.     
 You may already be able to upload files on the  , but you can't do it on the English Wikipedia just yet. If the file you want to upload has a free license, please go to Commons and upload it there.
  if you don't want to wait until you are autoconfirmed, you may ask somebody else to upload a file for you at  . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sorry, a few special characters and character combinations cannot be used in the filename for technical reasons. This goes especially for   and  . Your filename has been modified to avoid these. Please check if it is okay now.
 The filename you chose seems to be very short, or overly generic. Please don't use:
 
 If you upload your file with this name, you will be masking the existing file and make it inaccessible. Your new file will be displayed everywhere the existing file was previously used.
 This should not be done, except in very rare exceptional cases.
 Please don't upload your file under this name, unless you seriously know what you are doing. Choose a different name for your new file instead.
 
 If you upload your file with this name, you will be overwriting the existing file. Your new file will be displayed everywhere the existing file was previously used. Please don't do this, unless you have a good reason to:
 It is very important that you read through the following options and questions, and provide all required information truthfully and carefully. 
 Wikipedia loves free files. However, we would love it even more if you uploaded them on our sister project, the  .
Files uploaded on Commons can be used immediately here on Wikipedia as well as on all its sister projects. Uploading files on Commons works just the same as here. Your Wikipedia account will automatically work on Commons too. 
   
 However, if you prefer to do it here instead, you may go ahead with this form. You can also first use this form to collect the information about your file and then send it to Commons from here.
 Please note that by "entirely self-made" we really mean just that. 
  use this section for any of the following:
 Editors who falsely declare such items as their "own work"  .
 Use this   if there is an   in the source. 
 The website must explicitly say that the image is released under a license that allows free re-use for any purpose, e.g. the Creative Commons Attribution license. You must be able to point exactly to where it says this.
 If the source website doesn't say so explicitly, please  .
  means that nobody owns any copyrights on this work. It does   mean simply that it is freely viewable somewhere on the web or that it has been widely used by others. 
 This is   for images you simply found somewhere on the web. Most images on the web are under copyright and belong to somebody, even if you believe the owner won't care about that copyright. If it is in the public domain, you must be able to point to an actual law that makes it so. If you can't point to such a law but merely found this image somewhere, then  
  Please remember that you will need to demonstrate that:
 This file will be used in the following article:
 
    – article okay.
   
 The article   could not be found.
 Please check the spelling, and make sure you enter the name of an existing article in which you will include this file.
 If this is an article you are only planning to write, please write it first and upload the file afterwards.
   
 The page   is not in the main article namespace. Non-free files can only be used in mainspace article pages, not on a user page, talk page, template, etc.
 Please upload this file only if it is going to be used in an actual article.
 If this page is an article draft in your user space, we're sorry, but we must ask you to wait until the page is ready and has been moved into mainspace, and only upload the file after that.
   
 The page   is not a real article, but a disambiguation page pointing to a number of other pages.
 Please check and enter the exact title of the actual target article you meant.
 If neither of these two statements applies, then please  
 This section is   for images used merely to illustrate an article about a person or thing, showing what that person or thing look like.
 In view of this, please explain how the use of this file will be minimal.
 Well, we're very sorry, but if you're not sure about this file's copyright status, or if it doesn't fit into any of the groups above, then:
 
 Really, please don't. Even if you think it would make for a great addition to an article. We really take these copyright rules very seriously on Wikipedia. Note that media is   to be fully-copyrighted unless shown otherwise; the burden is on the uploader.
 In particular, please don't upload:
 If you are in any doubt, please ask some experienced editors for advice before uploading. People will be happy to assist you at  . Thank you.
 This is the data that will be submitted to upload:
 
 
 
 Your file is being uploaded. 
 This might take a minute or two, depending on the size of the file and the speed of your internet connection.
 Once uploading is completed, you will find your new file at this link:
 
 Your file has been uploaded successfully and can now be found here:
 
 Please follow the link and check that the image description page has all the information you meant to include.
 If you want to change the description, just go to the image page, click the "edit" tab at the top of the page and edit just as you would edit any other page. Do not go through this upload form again, unless you want to replace the actual file with a new version.
 To insert this file into an article, you may want to use code similar to the following:
 If you wish to make a link to the file in text, without actually showing the image, for instance when discussing the image on a talk page, you can use the following (mark the ":" after the initial brackets!):
 See   for more detailed help on how to insert and position images in pages.
 Please leave your feedback, comments, bug reports or suggestions on the  .
 


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_intelligence

Content: 
  ( ), in its broadest sense, is   exhibited by  , particularly  . It is a   in   that develops and studies methods and software which enable machines to   and uses   and intelligence to take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.  Such machines may be called AIs.
  is widely used  ,  , and science. Some high-profile applications include advanced   (e.g.,  );   (used by  ,  , and  ); interacting   (e.g.,  ,  , and  );   (e.g.,  );   and   tools (e.g.,   and  ); and   play and analysis in   (e.g.,   and  ).  However, many AI applications are not perceived as AI: "A lot of cutting edge AI has filtered into general applications, often without being called AI because once something becomes useful enough and common enough it's  ." 
  was the first person to conduct substantial research in the field that he called machine intelligence.  Artificial intelligence was founded as an academic discipline in 1956.  The field went through multiple cycles of optimism,  followed by periods of disappointment and loss of funding, known as  .  Funding and interest vastly increased after 2012 when   surpassed all previous AI techniques,  and after 2017 with the  .  This led to the   of the early 2020s, with companies, universities, and laboratories overwhelmingly based in the United States pioneering significant  . 
 The growing use of artificial intelligence in the 21st century is influencing   towards increased automation,  , and the   into various economic sectors and areas of life,  ,  , government, industry, and  . This raises questions about  ,  , and  , prompting discussions about   to ensure the  . 
 The various sub-fields of AI research are centered around particular goals and the use of particular tools. The traditional goals of AI research include  ,  ,  ,  ,  , perception, and support for  .   —the ability to complete any task performable by a human on an at least equal level—is among the field's long-term goals. 
 To reach these goals, AI researchers have adapted and integrated a wide range of techniques, including   and  ,  ,  , and methods based on  ,  , and  .  AI also draws upon  ,  ,  ,  , and other fields. 
 The general problem of simulating (or creating) intelligence has been broken into sub-problems. These consist of particular traits or capabilities that researchers expect an intelligent system to display. The traits described below have received the most attention and cover the scope of AI research. 
 Early researchers developed algorithms that imitated step-by-step reasoning that humans use when they solve puzzles or make logical  .  By the late 1980s and 1990s, methods were developed for dealing with   or incomplete information, employing concepts from   and  . 
 Many of these algorithms are insufficient for solving large reasoning problems because they experience a "combinatorial explosion": they became exponentially slower as the problems grew larger.  Even humans rarely use the step-by-step deduction that early AI research could model. They solve most of their problems using fast, intuitive judgments.  Accurate and efficient reasoning is an unsolved problem.
  and   allow AI programs to answer questions intelligently and make deductions about real-world facts. Formal knowledge representations are used in content-based indexing and retrieval,  scene interpretation,  clinical decision support,  knowledge discovery (mining "interesting" and actionable inferences from large  ),  and other areas. 
 A   is a body of knowledge represented in a form that can be used by a program. An   is the set of objects, relations, concepts, and properties used by a particular domain of knowledge.  Knowledge bases need to represent things such as: objects, properties, categories and relations between objects;  situations, events, states and time;  causes and effects;  knowledge about knowledge (what we know about what other people know);    (things that humans assume are true until they are told differently and will remain true even when other facts are changing);  and many other aspects and domains of knowledge.
 Among the most difficult problems in knowledge representation are: the breadth of commonsense knowledge (the set of atomic facts that the average person knows is enormous);  and the sub-symbolic form of most commonsense knowledge (much of what people know is not represented as "facts" or "statements" that they could express verbally).  There is also the difficulty of  , the problem of obtaining knowledge for AI applications. 
 An "agent" is anything that perceives and takes actions in the world. A   has goals or preferences and takes actions to make them happen.  In  , the agent has a specific goal.  In  , the agent has preferences—there are some situations it would prefer to be in, and some situations it is trying to avoid. The decision making agent assigns a number to each situation (called the " ") that measures how much the agent prefers it. For each possible action, it can calculate the " ": the   of all possible outcomes of the action, weighted by the probability that the outcome will occur. It can then choose the action with the maximum expected utility. 
 In  , the agent knows exactly what the effect of any action will be.  In most real-world problems, however, the agent may not be certain about the situation they are in (it is "unknown" or "unobservable") and it may not know for certain what will happen after each possible action (it is not "deterministic"). It must choose an action by making a probabilistic guess and then reassess the situation to see if the action worked. 
 In some problems, the agent's preferences may be uncertain, especially if there are other agents or humans involved. These can be learned (e.g., with  ) or the agent can seek information to improve its preferences.    can be used to weigh the value of exploratory or experimental actions.  The space of possible future actions and situations is typically   large, so the agents must take actions and evaluate situations while being uncertain what the outcome will be.
 A   has a   that describes the probability that a particular action will change the state in a particular way, and a   that supplies the utility of each state and the cost of each action. A   associates a decision with each possible state. The policy could be calculated (e.g., by  ), be  , or it can be learned. 
  describes rational behavior of multiple interacting agents, and is used in AI programs that make decisions that involve other agents. 
  is the study of programs that can improve their performance on a given task automatically.  It has been a part of AI from the beginning. 
 There are several kinds of machine learning.   analyzes a stream of data and finds patterns and makes predictions without any other guidance.    requires a human to label the input data first, and comes in two main varieties:   (where the program must learn to predict what category the input belongs in) and   (where the program must deduce a numeric function based on numeric input). 
 In   the agent is rewarded for good responses and punished for bad ones. The agent learns to choose responses that are classified as "good".    is when the knowledge gained from one problem is applied to a new problem.    is a type of machine learning that runs inputs through biologically inspired   for all of these types of learning. 
  can assess learners by  , by   (how much data is required), or by other notions of  . 
  (NLP)  allows programs to read, write and communicate in human languages such as  . Specific problems include  ,  ,  ,  ,   and  . 
 Early work, based on  's   and  , had difficulty with   unless restricted to small domains called " " (due to the common sense knowledge problem ).   believed that it was meaning and not grammar that was the key to understanding languages, and that   and not dictionaries should be the basis of computational language structure.
 Modern deep learning techniques for NLP include   (representing words, typically as   encoding their meaning),    (a deep learning architecture using an   mechanism),  and others.  In 2019,   (or "GPT") language models began to generate coherent text,  and by 2023 these models were able to get human-level scores on the  ,   test,   test, and many other real-world applications. 
  is the ability to use input from sensors (such as cameras, microphones, wireless signals, active  , sonar, radar, and  ) to deduce aspects of the world.   is the ability to analyze visual input. 
 The field includes  ,   ,   ,  ,  and  . 
  is an interdisciplinary umbrella that comprises systems that recognize, interpret, process or simulate human  .  For example, some   are programmed to speak conversationally or even to banter humorously; it makes them appear more sensitive to the emotional dynamics of human interaction, or to otherwise facilitate  .
 However, this tends to give naïve users an unrealistic conception of the intelligence of existing computer agents.  Moderate successes related to affective computing include textual   and, more recently,  , wherein AI classifies the affects displayed by a videotaped subject. 
 A machine with   should be able to solve a wide variety of problems with breadth and versatility similar to human intelligence. 
 AI research uses a wide variety of techniques to accomplish the goals above. 
 AI can solve many problems by intelligently searching through many possible solutions.  There are two very different kinds of search used in AI:   and  .
  searches through a tree of possible states to try to find a goal state.  For example,   algorithms search through trees of goals and subgoals, attempting to find a path to a target goal, a process called  . 
  are rarely sufficient for most real-world problems: the   (the number of places to search) quickly grows to  . The result is a search that is   or never completes.  " " or "rules of thumb" can help to prioritize choices that are more likely to reach a goal. 
  is used for   programs, such as chess or Go. It searches through a   of possible moves and counter-moves, looking for a winning position. 
  uses   to find a solution to a problem. It begins with some form of guess and refines it incrementally. 
  is a type of local search that optimizes a set of numerical parameters by incrementally adjusting them to minimize a  . Variants of gradient descent are commonly used to train neural networks. 
 Another type of local search is  , which aims to iteratively improve a set of candidate solutions by "mutating" and "recombining" them,   only the fittest to survive each generation. 
 Distributed search processes can coordinate via   algorithms. Two popular swarm algorithms used in search are   (inspired by bird  ) and   (inspired by  ). 
 Formal   is used for   and  . 
Formal logic comes in two main forms:   (which operates on statements that are true or false and uses   such as "and", "or", "not" and "implies")  and   (which also operates on objects, predicates and relations and uses   such as "    is a  " and "There are    s that are  s"). 
  in logic is the process of   a new statement ( ) from other statements that are given and assumed to be true (the  ).  Proofs can be structured as proof  , in which nodes are labelled by sentences, and children nodes are connected to  parent nodes by  .
 Given a problem and a set of premises, problem-solving reduces to searching for a proof tree whose root node is labelled by a solution of the problem and whose leaf nodes are labelled by premises or  . In the case of  , problem-solving search can be performed by reasoning   from the premises or   from the problem.  In the more general case of the clausal form of  ,   is a single, axiom-free rule of inference, in which a problem is solved by proving a contradiction from premises that include the negation of the problem to be solved. 
 Inference in both Horn clause logic and first-order logic is  , and therefore  . However, backward reasoning with Horn clauses, which underpins computation in the   language  , is  . Moreover, its efficiency is competitive with computation in other   languages. 
  assigns a "degree of truth" between 0 and 1. It can therefore handle propositions that are vague and partially true. 
 , including logic programming with  , are designed to handle  . 
Other specialized versions of logic have been developed to describe many complex domains.
 Many problems in AI (including in reasoning, planning, learning, perception, and robotics) require the agent to operate with incomplete or uncertain information. AI researchers have devised a number of tools to solve these problems using methods from   theory and economics.  Precise mathematical tools have been developed that analyze how an agent can make choices and plan, using  ,  ,  and  .  These tools include models such as  ,  dynamic  ,    and  . 
  are a tool that can be used for   (using the   algorithm),    (using the  ),    (using  )  and   (using  ). 
 
Probabilistic algorithms can also be used for filtering, prediction, smoothing and finding explanations for streams of data, helping   systems to analyze processes that occur over time (e.g.,   or  ). The simplest AI applications can be divided into two types: classifiers (e.g., "if shiny then diamond"), on one hand, and controllers (e.g., "if diamond then pick up"), on the other hand.   are functions that use   to determine the closest match. They can be fine-tuned based on chosen examples using  . Each pattern (also called an " ") is labeled with a certain predefined class. All the observations combined with their class labels are known as a  . When a new observation is received, that observation is classified based on previous experience. 
 There are many kinds of classifiers in use. The   is the simplest and most widely used symbolic machine learning algorithm.    algorithm was the most widely used analogical AI until the mid-1990s, and   such as the   (SVM) displaced k-nearest neighbor in the 1990s. 
The   is reportedly the "most widely used learner"  at Google, due in part to its scalability. 
  are also used as classifiers. 
 An artificial neural network is based on a collection of nodes also known as  , which loosely model the   in a biological brain. It is trained to recognise patterns; once trained, it can recognise those patterns in fresh data. There is an input, at least one hidden layer of nodes and an output. Each node applies a function and once the   crosses its specified threshold, the data is transmitted to the next layer. A network is typically called a deep neural network if it has at least 2 hidden layers. 
 Learning algorithms for neural networks use   to choose the weights that will get the right output for each input during training. The most common training technique is the   algorithm. 
Neural networks learn to model complex relationships between inputs and outputs and   in data. In theory, a neural network can learn any function. 
 In   the signal passes in only one direction.    feed the output signal back into the input, which allows short-term memories of previous input events.   is the most successful network architecture for recurrent networks. 
 
use only a single layer of neurons, deep learning  uses multiple layers.
  strengthen the connection between neurons that are "close" to each other—this is especially important in  , where a local set of neurons must   before the network can identify an object. 
 Deep learning 
uses several layers of neurons between the network's inputs and outputs. The multiple layers can progressively extract higher-level features from the raw input. For example, in  , lower layers may identify edges, while higher layers may identify the concepts relevant to a human such as digits or letters or faces. 
 Deep learning has profoundly improved the performance of programs in many important subfields of artificial intelligence, including  ,  ,  ,   and others. The reason that deep learning performs so well in so many applications is not known as of 2023. 
The sudden success of deep learning in 2012–2015 did not occur because of some new discovery or theoretical breakthrough (deep neural networks and backpropagation had been described by many people, as far back as the 1950s) 
but because of two factors: the incredible increase in computer power (including the hundred-fold increase in speed by switching to  ) and the availability of vast amounts of training data, especially the giant   used for benchmark testing, such as  . 
  (GPT) are   that are based on the semantic relationships between words in sentences ( ). Text-based GPT models are pre-trained on a large corpus of text which can be from the internet. The pre-training consists in predicting the next   (a token being usually a word, subword, or punctuation). Throughout this pre-training, GPT models accumulate knowledge about the world, and can then generate human-like text by repeatedly predicting the next token. Typically, a subsequent training phase makes the model more truthful, useful and harmless, usually with a technique called   (RLHF). Current GPT models are still prone to generating falsehoods called " ", although this can be reduced with RLHF and quality data. They are used in  , which allow you to ask a question or request a task in simple text. 
 Current models and services include:   (formerly Bard),  ,  ,  ,   and  .    GPT models can process different types of data ( ) such as images, videos, sound and text. 
 In the late 2010s,   (GPUs) that were increasingly designed with AI-specific enhancements and used with specialized   software, had replaced previously used   (CPUs) as the dominant means for large-scale (commercial and academic)   models' training.  Historically, specialized languages, such as  ,  ,   and others, had been used.
 AI and machine learning technology is used in most of the essential applications of the 2020s, including:   (such as  ),  ,   (offered by  ,   or  ), driving  ,   ( ,  ),   (such as   or  ),   (including  ,   and  ),   ( ,  ),   ( 's   or  's   and  's  ) and   (used by  , Apple's   and  ).
 The application of AI in   and   has the potential to increase patient care and quality of life.  Through the lens of the  , medical professionals are ethically compelled to use AI, if applications can more accurately diagnose and treat patients.
 For medical research, AI is an important tool for processing and integrating  . This is particularly important for   and   development which use   imaging as a key technique in fabrication.  It has been suggested that AI can overcome discrepancies in funding allocated to different fields of research.  New AI tools can deepen the understanding of biomedically relevant pathways. For example,   (2021) demonstrated the ability to approximate, in hours rather than months, the 3D  .  In 2023, it was reported that AI-guided drug discovery helped find a class of antibiotics capable of killing two different types of drug-resistant bacteria.  In 2024, researchers used machine learning to accelerate the search for   drug treatments. Their aim was to identify compounds that block the clumping, or aggregation, of   (the protein that characterises Parkinson's disease). They were able to speed up the initial screening process ten-fold, and to reduce the cost by a thousand-fold. 
  programs have been used since the 1950s to demonstrate and test AI's most advanced techniques.    became the first computer chess-playing system to beat a reigning world chess champion,  , on 11 May 1997.  In 2011, in a     exhibition match,  's  ,  , defeated the two greatest   champions,   and  , by a significant margin.  In March 2016,   won 4 out of 5 games of   in a match with Go champion  , becoming the first  -playing system to beat a professional Go player without  . Then in 2017 it  , who was the best Go player in the world.  Other programs handle   games, such as the  -playing program  .    developed increasingly generalistic   models, such as with  , which could be trained to play chess, Go, or   games.  In 2019, DeepMind's AlphaStar achieved grandmaster level in  , a particularly challenging real-time strategy game that involves incomplete knowledge of what happens on the map.  In 2021, an AI agent competed in a PlayStation Gran Turismo competition, winning against four of the world's best Gran Turismo drivers using deep reinforcement learning. 
 Various countries are deploying AI military applications.  The main applications enhance  , communications, sensors, integration and interoperability.  Research is targeting intelligence collection and analysis, logistics, cyber operations, information operations, and semiautonomous and  .  AI technologies enable coordination of sensors and effectors, threat detection and identification, marking of enemy positions,  , coordination and deconfliction of distributed   between networked combat vehicles involving manned and unmanned teams.  AI was incorporated into military operations in Iraq and Syria. 
 In November 2023, US Vice President   disclosed a declaration signed by 31 nations to set guardrails for the military use of AI. The commitments include using legal reviews to ensure the compliance of military AI with international laws, and being cautious and transparent in the development of this technology. 
 In the early 2020s,   gained widespread prominence. In March 2023, 58% of U.S. adults had heard about   and 14% had tried it.  The increasing realism and ease-of-use of AI-based   generators such as  ,  , and   sparked a trend of   AI-generated photos. Widespread attention was gained by a fake photo of   wearing a white puffer coat, the fictional arrest of  , and a hoax of an attack on the  , as well as the usage in professional creative arts. 
 There are also thousands of successful AI applications used to solve specific problems for specific industries or institutions. In a 2017 survey, one in five companies reported they had incorporated "AI" in some offerings or processes.  A few examples are  , medical diagnosis, military logistics, applications that predict the result of judicial decisions,  , or supply chain management.
 In agriculture, AI has helped farmers identify areas that need irrigation, fertilization, pesticide treatments or increasing yield. Agronomists use AI to conduct research and development. AI has been used to predict the ripening time for crops such as tomatoes, monitor soil moisture, operate agricultural robots, conduct predictive analytics, classify livestock pig call emotions, automate greenhouses, detect diseases and pests, and save water.
 Artificial intelligence is used in astronomy to analyze increasing amounts of available data and applications, mainly for "classification, regression, clustering, forecasting, generation, discovery, and the development of new scientific insights" for example for discovering exoplanets, forecasting solar activity, and distinguishing between signals and instrumental effects in gravitational wave astronomy. It could also be used for activities in space such as space exploration, including analysis of data from space missions, real-time science decisions of spacecraft, space debris avoidance, and more autonomous operation.
 AI has potential benefits and potential risks. AI may be able to advance science and find solutions for serious problems:   of   hopes to "solve intelligence, and then use that to solve everything else".  However, as the use of AI has become widespread, several unintended consequences and risks have been identified.  In-production systems can sometimes not factor ethics and bias into their AI training processes, especially when the AI algorithms are inherently unexplainable in deep learning. 
 Machine-learning algorithms require large amounts of data. The techniques used to acquire this data have raised concerns about  ,   and  .
 Technology companies collect a wide range of data from their users, including online activity, geolocation data, video and audio. 
For example, in order to build   algorithms,   has recorded millions of private conversations and allowed   to listen to and transcribe some of them.  Opinions about this widespread   range from those who see it as a   to those for whom it is clearly   and a violation of the  . 
 AI developers argue that this is the only way to deliver valuable applications. and have developed several techniques that attempt to preserve privacy while still obtaining the data, such as  ,   and  .  Since 2016, some privacy experts, such as  , have begun to view privacy in terms of  .   wrote that experts have pivoted "from the question of 'what they know' to the question of 'what they're doing with it'." 
 Generative AI is often trained on unlicensed copyrighted works, including in domains such as images or computer code; the output is then used under the rationale of " ". Website owners who do not wish to have their copyrighted content AI-indexed or 'scraped' can add code to their site if they do not want their website to be indexed by a search engine, which is currently available through certain services such as  . Experts disagree about how well and under what circumstances this rationale will hold up in courts of law; relevant factors may include "the purpose and character of the use of the copyrighted work" and "the effect upon the potential market for the copyrighted work".  In 2023, leading authors (including   and  ) sued AI companies for using their work to train generative AI. 
 ,   and others use   to guide users to more content. These AI programs were given the goal of   user engagement (that is, the only goal was to keep people watching). The AI learned that users tended to choose  ,  , and extreme   content, and, to keep them watching, the AI recommended more of it. Users also tended to watch more content on the same subject, so the AI led people into   where they received multiple versions of the same misinformation.  This convinced many users that the misinformation was true, and ultimately undermined trust in institutions, the media and the government.  The AI program had correctly learned to maximize its goal, but the result was harmful to society. After the U.S. election in 2016, major technology companies took steps to mitigate the problem.
 In 2022,   began to create images, audio, video and text that are indistinguishable from real photographs, recordings, films or human writing. It is possible for bad actors to use this technology to create massive amounts of misinformation or propaganda.  AI pioneer   expressed concern about AI enabling "authoritarian leaders to manipulate their electorates" on a large scale, among other risks. 
 Machine learning applications will be biased if they learn from biased data.  The developers may not be aware that the bias exists. 
Bias can be introduced by the way   is selected and by the way a model is deployed.  If a biased algorithm is used to make decisions that can seriously   people (as it can in  ,  ,  ,   or  ) then the algorithm may cause  . 
  in machine learning is the study of how to prevent the harm caused by algorithmic bias. It has become serious area of academic study within AI. Researchers have discovered it is not always possible to define "fairness" in a way that satisfies all stakeholders. 
 On June 28, 2015,  's new image labeling feature mistakenly identified Jacky Alcine and a friend as "gorillas" because they were black. The system was trained on a dataset that contained very few images of black people,  a problem called "sample size disparity".  Google "fixed" this problem by preventing the system from labelling   as a "gorilla". Eight years later, in 2023, Google Photos still could not identify a gorilla, and neither could similar products from Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Amazon. 
  is a commercial program widely used by   to assess the likelihood of a   becoming a  .
In 2016,   at   discovered that COMPAS exhibited racial bias, despite the fact that the program was not told the races of the defendants. Although the error rate for both whites and blacks was calibrated equal at exactly 61%, the errors for each race were different—the system consistently overestimated the chance that a black person would re-offend and would underestimate the chance that a white person would not re-offend.  In 2017, several researchers  showed that it was mathematically impossible for COMPAS to accommodate all possible measures of fairness when the base rates of re-offense were different for whites and blacks in the data. 
 A program can make biased decisions even if the data does not explicitly mention a problematic feature (such as "race" or "gender"). The feature will correlate with other features (like "address", "shopping history" or "first name"), and the program will make the same decisions based on these features as it would on "race" or "gender". 
Moritz Hardt said "the most robust fact in this research area is that fairness through blindness doesn't work." 
 Criticism of COMPAS highlighted that machine learning models are designed to make "predictions" that are only valid if we assume that the future will resemble the past. If they are trained on data that includes the results of racist decisions in the past, machine learning models must predict that racist decisions will be made in the future. If an application then uses these predictions as  , some of these "recommendations" will likely be racist.  Thus, machine learning is not well suited to help make decisions in areas where there is hope that the future will be   than the past. It is necessarily descriptive and not proscriptive. 
 Bias and unfairness may go undetected because the developers are overwhelmingly white and male: among AI engineers, about 4% are black and 20% are women. 
 At its 2022   (ACM FAccT 2022), the  , in Seoul, South Korea, presented and published findings that recommend that until AI and robotics systems are demonstrated to be free of bias mistakes, they are unsafe, and the use of self-learning neural networks trained on vast, unregulated sources of flawed internet data should be curtailed. 
 Many AI systems are so complex that their designers cannot explain how they reach their decisions.  Particularly with  , in which there are a large amount of non-  relationships between inputs and outputs. But some popular explainability techniques exist. 
 It is impossible to be certain that a program is operating correctly if no one knows how exactly it works. There have been many cases where a machine learning program passed rigorous tests, but nevertheless learned something different than what the programmers intended. For example, a system that could identify skin diseases better than medical professionals was found to actually have a strong tendency to classify images with a   as "cancerous", because pictures of malignancies typically include a ruler to show the scale.  Another machine learning system designed to help effectively allocate medical resources was found to classify patients with asthma as being at "low risk" of dying from pneumonia. Having asthma is actually a severe risk factor, but since the patients having asthma would usually get much more medical care, they were relatively unlikely to die according to the training data. The correlation between asthma and low risk of dying from pneumonia was real, but misleading. 
 People who have been harmed by an algorithm's decision have a right to an explanation.  Doctors, for example, are expected to clearly and completely explain to their colleagues the reasoning behind any decision they make. Early drafts of the European Union's   in 2016 included an explicit statement that this right exists.  Industry experts noted that this is an unsolved problem with no solution in sight. Regulators argued that nevertheless the harm is real: if the problem has no solution, the tools should not be used. 
  established the   ("Explainable Artificial Intelligence") program in 2014 to try and solve these problems.  
 There are several possible solutions to the transparency problem. SHAP tried to solve the transparency problems by visualising the contribution of each feature to the output.  LIME can locally approximate a model with a simpler, interpretable model.    provides a large number of outputs in addition to the target classification. These other outputs can help developers deduce what the network has learned.   ,   and other   methods can allow developers to see what different layers of a deep network have learned and produce output that can suggest what the network is learning. 
 Artificial intelligence provides a number of tools that are useful to  , such as  ,  ,   or  .
 A lethal autonomous weapon is a machine that locates, selects and engages human targets without human supervision.  Widely available AI tools can be used by bad actors to develop inexpensive autonomous weapons and, if produced at scale, they are potentially  .  Even when used in conventional warfare, it is unlikely that they will be unable to reliably choose targets and could potentially  .  In 2014, 30 nations (including China) supported a ban on autonomous weapons under the  '  , however the   and others disagreed.  By 2015, over fifty countries were reported to be researching battlefield robots. 
 AI tools make it easier for   to efficiently control their citizens in several ways.   and   allow widespread  .  , operating this data, can   potential enemies of the state and prevent them from hiding.   can precisely target   and   for maximum effect.   and   aid in producing misinformation. Advanced AI can make authoritarian   more competitive than liberal and decentralized systems such as  . It lowers the cost and difficulty of   and  .  All these technologies have been available since 2020 or earlier—AI   are already being used for   in China. 
 There many other ways that AI is expected to help bad actors, some of which can not be foreseen. For example, machine-learning AI is able to design tens of thousands of toxic molecules in a matter of hours. 
 Training AI systems requires an enormous amount of computing power. Usually only   companies have the financial resources to make such investments. Smaller startups such as   and   end up buying access to   from   and   respectively. 
 Economists have frequently highlighted the risks of redundancies from AI, and speculated about unemployment if there is no adequate social policy for full employment. 
 In the past, technology has tended to increase rather than reduce total employment, but economists acknowledge that "we're in uncharted territory" with AI.  A survey of economists showed disagreement about whether the increasing use of robots and AI will cause a substantial increase in long-term  , but they generally agree that it could be a net benefit if   gains are  .  Risk estimates vary; for example, in the 2010s, Michael Osborne and   estimated 47% of U.S. jobs are at "high risk" of potential automation, while an OECD report classified only 9% of U.S. jobs as "high risk".  The methodology of speculating about future employment levels has been criticised as lacking evidential foundation, and for implying that technology, rather than social policy, creates unemployment, as opposed to redundancies.  In April 2023, it was reported that 70% of the jobs for Chinese video game illustrators had been eliminated by generative artificial intelligence. 
 Unlike previous waves of automation, many middle-class jobs may be eliminated by artificial intelligence;   stated in 2015 that "the worry that AI could do to white-collar jobs what steam power did to blue-collar ones during the Industrial Revolution" is "worth taking seriously".  Jobs at extreme risk range from   to fast food cooks, while job demand is likely to increase for care-related professions ranging from personal healthcare to the clergy. 
 From the early days of the development of artificial intelligence, there have been arguments, for example, those put forward by  , about whether tasks that can be done by computers actually should be done by them, given the difference between computers and humans, and between quantitative calculation and qualitative, value-based judgement. 
 It has been argued AI will become so powerful that humanity may irreversibly lose control of it. This could, as physicist   stated, " ".  This scenario has been common in science fiction, when a computer or robot suddenly develops a human-like "self-awareness" (or "sentience" or "consciousness") and becomes a malevolent character.  These sci-fi scenarios are misleading in several ways.
 First, AI does not require human-like " " to be an existential risk. Modern AI programs are given specific goals and use learning and intelligence to achieve them. Philosopher   argued that if one gives   goal to a sufficiently powerful AI, it may choose to destroy humanity to achieve it (he used the example of a  ).    gives the example of household robot that tries to find a way to kill its owner to prevent it from being unplugged, reasoning that "you can't fetch the coffee if you're dead."  In order to be safe for humanity, a   would have to be genuinely   with humanity's morality and values so that it is "fundamentally on our side". 
 Second,   argues that AI does not require a robot body or physical control to pose an existential risk. The essential parts of civilization are not physical. Things like  ,  ,  ,   and the   are made of  ; they exist because there are stories that billions of people believe. The current prevalence of   suggests that an AI could use language to convince people to believe anything, even to take actions that are destructive. 
 The opinions amongst experts and industry insiders are mixed, with sizable fractions both concerned and unconcerned by risk from eventual superintelligent AI.  Personalities such as  ,  , and   have expressed concern about existential risk from AI. 
AI pioneers including  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and   have expressed concerns about the risks of AI. In 2023, many leading AI experts issued the joint statement that "Mitigating the risk of extinction from AI should be a global priority alongside other societal-scale risks such as pandemics and nuclear war". 
 Other researchers, however, spoke in favor of a less dystopian view. AI pioneer   did not sign the joint statement, emphasising that in 95% of all cases, AI research is about making "human lives longer and healthier and easier."  While the tools that are now being used to improve lives can also be used by bad actors, "they can also be used against the bad actors."    also argued that "it's a mistake to fall for the doomsday hype on AI—and that regulators who do will only benefit vested interests."    "scoffs at his peers' dystopian scenarios of supercharged misinformation and even, eventually, human extinction."  In the early 2010s, experts argued that the risks are too distant in the future to warrant research or that humans will be valuable from the perspective of a superintelligent machine.  However, after 2016, the study of current and future risks and possible solutions became a serious area of research. 
 Friendly AI are machines that have been designed from the beginning to minimize risks and to make choices that benefit humans.  , who coined the term, argues that developing friendly AI should be a higher research priority: it may require a large investment and it must be completed before AI becomes an existential risk. 
 Machines with intelligence have the potential to use their intelligence to make ethical decisions. The field of machine ethics provides machines with ethical principles and procedures for resolving ethical dilemmas. 
The field of machine ethics is also called computational morality, 
and was founded at an   symposium in 2005. 
 Other approaches include  's "artificial moral agents"  and  's   for developing provably beneficial machines. 
 Active organizations in the AI open-source community include  ,   ,    and  .  Various AI models, such as  ,   or  , have been made open-weight,  meaning that their architecture and trained parameters (the "weights") are publicly available. Open-weight models can be freely  , which allows companies to specialize them with their own data and for their own use-case.  Open-weight models are useful for research and innovation, but can also be misused. Since they can be fine-tuned, any built-in security measure, such as objecting to harmful requests, can be trained away until it becomes ineffective. Some researchers warn that future AI models may develop dangerous capabilities (such as the potential to drastically facilitate  ), and that once released on the Internet, they can't be deleted everywhere if needed. They recommend pre-release audits and cost-benefit analyses. 
 Artificial Intelligence projects can have their ethical permissibility tested while designing, developing, and implementing an AI system. An AI framework such as the Care and Act Framework containing the SUM values—developed by the   tests projects in four main areas: 
 Other developments in ethical frameworks include those decided upon during the  , the Montreal Declaration for Responsible AI, and the IEEE's Ethics of Autonomous Systems initiative, among others;  however, these principles do not go without their criticisms, especially regards to the people chosen contributes to these frameworks. 
 Promotion of the wellbeing of the people and communities that these technologies affect requires consideration of the social and ethical implications at all stages of AI system design, development and implementation, and collaboration between job roles such as data scientists, product managers, data engineers, domain experts, and delivery managers. 
 The regulation of artificial intelligence is the development of public sector policies and laws for promoting and regulating artificial intelligence (AI); it is therefore related to the broader regulation of algorithms.  The regulatory and policy landscape for AI is an emerging issue in jurisdictions globally.  According to AI Index at  , the annual number of AI-related laws passed in the 127 survey countries jumped from one passed in 2016 to 37 passed in 2022 alone.  Between 2016 and 2020, more than 30 countries adopted dedicated strategies for AI.  Most EU member states had released national AI strategies, as had Canada, China, India, Japan, Mauritius, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, U.S., and Vietnam. Others were in the process of elaborating their own AI strategy, including Bangladesh, Malaysia and Tunisia.  The   was launched in June 2020, stating a need for AI to be developed in accordance with human rights and democratic values, to ensure public confidence and trust in the technology.   ,  , and   published a joint statement in November 2021 calling for a government commission to regulate AI.  In 2023, OpenAI leaders published recommendations for the governance of superintelligence, which they believe may happen in less than 10 years.  In 2023, the United Nations also launched an advisory body to provide recommendations on AI governance; the body comprises technology company executives, governments officials and academics. 
 In a 2022   survey, attitudes towards AI varied greatly by country; 78% of Chinese citizens, but only 35% of Americans, agreed that "products and services using AI have more benefits than drawbacks".  A 2023  /Ipsos poll found that 61% of Americans agree, and 22% disagree, that AI poses risks to humanity.  In a 2023   poll, 35% of Americans thought it "very important", and an additional 41% thought it "somewhat important", for the federal government to regulate AI, versus 13% responding "not very important" and 8% responding "not at all important". 
 In November 2023, the first global   was held in   in the UK to discuss the near and far term risks of AI and the possibility of mandatory and voluntary regulatory frameworks.  28 countries including the United States, China, and the European Union issued a declaration at the start of the summit, calling for international co-operation to manage the challenges and risks of artificial intelligence. 
 The study of mechanical or "formal" reasoning began with philosophers and mathematicians in antiquity. The study of logic led directly to  's  , which suggested that a machine, by shuffling symbols as simple as "0" and "1", could simulate any conceivable form of mathematical reasoning.  This, along with concurrent discoveries in  ,   and  , led researchers to consider the possibility of building an "electronic brain".  
They developed several areas of research that would become part of AI, 
such as   and   design for "artificial neurons" in 1943,  and Turing's influential 1950 paper ' ', which introduced the   and showed that "machine intelligence" was plausible. 
 The field of AI research was founded at   at   in 1956.  The attendees became the leaders of AI research in the 1960s.  They and their students produced programs that the press described as "astonishing":  computers were learning   strategies, solving word problems in algebra, proving   and speaking English.  Artificial intelligence laboratories were set up at a number of British and U.S. Universities in the latter 1950s and early 1960s. 
 Researchers in the 1960s and the 1970s were convinced that their methods would eventually succeed in creating a machine with   and considered this the goal of their field.    predicted, "machines will be capable, within twenty years, of doing any work a man can do".    agreed, writing, "within a generation ... the problem of creating 'artificial intelligence' will substantially be solved".  They had, however, underestimated the difficulty of the problem.  In 1974, both the U.S. and British governments cut off exploratory research in response to the   of   and ongoing pressure from the U.S. Congress to  .   's and  's book   was understood as proving that   would never be useful for solving real-world tasks, thus discrediting the approach altogether.  The " ", a period when obtaining funding for AI projects was difficult, followed. 
 In the early 1980s, AI research was revived by the commercial success of  ,  a form of AI program that simulated the knowledge and analytical skills of human experts. By 1985, the market for AI had reached over a billion dollars. At the same time, Japan's   project inspired the U.S. and British governments to restore funding for  .  However, beginning with the collapse of the   market in 1987, AI once again fell into disrepute, and a second, longer-lasting winter began. 
 Up to this point, most of AI's funding had gone to projects which used high level   to represent   like plans, goals, beliefs and known facts. In the 1980s, some researchers began to doubt that this approach would be able to imitate all the processes of human cognition, especially  ,  ,   and  ,  and began to look into "sub-symbolic" approaches.    rejected "representation" in general and focussed directly on engineering machines that move and survive.   ,   and others developed methods that handled incomplete and uncertain information by making reasonable guesses rather than precise logic.  But the most important development was the revival of " ", including neural network research, by   and others.  In 1990,   successfully showed that   can recognize handwritten digits, the first of many successful applications of neural networks. 
 AI gradually restored its reputation in the late 1990s and early 21st century by exploiting formal mathematical methods and by finding specific solutions to specific problems. This " " and "formal" focus allowed researchers to produce verifiable results and collaborate with other fields (such as  ,   and  ).  By 2000, solutions developed by AI researchers were being widely used, although in the 1990s they were rarely described as "artificial intelligence". 
However, several academic researchers became concerned that AI was no longer pursuing its original goal of creating versatile, fully intelligent machines. Beginning around 2002, they founded the subfield of   (or "AGI"), which had several well-funded institutions by the 2010s. 
  began to dominate industry benchmarks in 2012 and was adopted throughout the field. 
For many specific tasks, other methods were abandoned. 
Deep learning's success was based on both hardware improvements ( ,   ,  ) and access to   (including curated datasets,  such as  ). Deep learning's success led to an enormous increase in interest and funding in AI.  The amount of machine learning research (measured by total publications) increased by 50% in the years 2015–2019. 
 In 2016, issues of   and the misuse of technology were catapulted into center stage at machine learning conferences, publications vastly increased, funding became available, and many researchers re-focussed their careers on these issues. The   became a serious field of academic study. 
 In the late teens and early 2020s,   companies began to deliver programs that created enormous interest. In 2015,  , developed by  , beat the world champion  . The program was taught only the rules of the game and developed strategy by itself.   is a   that was released in 2020 by   and is capable of generating high-quality human-like text.  These programs, and others, inspired an aggressive  , where large companies began investing billions in AI research. According to 'AI Impacts', about $50 billion annually was invested in "AI" around 2022 in the U.S. alone and about 20% of the new U.S. Computer Science PhD graduates have specialized in "AI". 
About 800,000 "AI"-related U.S. job openings existed in 2022. 
  wrote in 1950 "I propose to consider the question 'can machines think'?"  He advised changing the question from whether a machine "thinks", to "whether or not it is possible for machinery to show intelligent behaviour".  He devised the Turing test, which measures the ability of a machine to simulate human conversation.  Since we can only observe the behavior of the machine, it does not matter if it is "actually" thinking or literally has a "mind". Turing notes that   but "it is usual to have a polite convention that everyone thinks" 
  and   agree with Turing that intelligence must be defined in terms of external behavior, not internal structure.  However, they are critical that the test requires the machine to imitate humans. "  texts," they wrote, "do not define the goal of their field as making 'machines that fly so exactly like   that they can fool other pigeons. "  AI founder   agreed, writing that "Artificial intelligence is not, by definition, simulation of human intelligence". 
 McCarthy defines intelligence as "the computational part of the ability to achieve goals in the world."  Another AI founder,   similarly describes it as "the ability to solve hard problems".  The leading AI textbook defines it as the study of agents that perceive their environment and take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.  These definitions view intelligence in terms of well-defined problems with well-defined solutions, where both the difficulty of the problem and the performance of the program are direct measures of the "intelligence" of the machine—and no other philosophical discussion is required, or may not even be possible.
 Another definition has been adopted by Google,  a major practitioner in the field of AI. This definition stipulates the ability of systems to synthesize information as the manifestation of intelligence, similar to the way it is defined in biological intelligence.
 No established unifying theory or   has guided AI research for most of its history.  The unprecedented success of statistical machine learning in the 2010s eclipsed all other approaches (so much so that some sources, especially in the business world, use the term "artificial intelligence" to mean "machine learning with neural networks"). This approach is mostly  ,   and  . Critics argue that these questions may have to be revisited by future generations of AI researchers.
  (or " ")  simulated the high-level conscious reasoning that people use when they solve puzzles, express legal reasoning and do mathematics. They were highly successful at "intelligent" tasks such as algebra or IQ tests. In the 1960s, Newell and Simon proposed the  : "A physical symbol system has the necessary and sufficient means of general intelligent action." 
 However, the symbolic approach failed on many tasks that humans solve easily, such as learning, recognizing an object or commonsense reasoning.   is the discovery that high-level "intelligent" tasks were easy for AI, but low level "instinctive" tasks were extremely difficult.  Philosopher   had   since the 1960s that human expertise depends on unconscious instinct rather than conscious symbol manipulation, and on having a "feel" for the situation, rather than explicit symbolic knowledge.  Although his arguments had been ridiculed and ignored when they were first presented, eventually, AI research came to agree with him. 
 The issue is not resolved:   reasoning can make many of the same inscrutable mistakes that human intuition does, such as  . Critics such as   argue continuing research into symbolic AI will still be necessary to attain general intelligence,  in part because sub-symbolic AI is a move away from  : it can be difficult or impossible to understand why a modern statistical AI program made a particular decision. The emerging field of   attempts to bridge the two approaches.
 "Neats" hope that intelligent behavior is described using simple, elegant principles (such as  ,  , or  ). "Scruffies" expect that it necessarily requires solving a large number of unrelated problems. Neats defend their programs with theoretical rigor, scruffies rely mainly on incremental testing to see if they work. This issue was actively discussed in the 1970s and 1980s,  but eventually was seen as irrelevant. Modern AI has elements of both.
 Finding a provably correct or optimal solution is   for many important problems.  Soft computing is a set of techniques, including  ,   and neural networks, that are tolerant of imprecision, uncertainty, partial truth and approximation. Soft computing was introduced in the late 1980s and most successful AI programs in the 21st century are examples of soft computing with neural networks.
 AI researchers are divided as to whether to pursue the goals of artificial general intelligence and   directly or to solve as many specific problems as possible (narrow AI) in hopes these solutions will lead indirectly to the field's long-term goals.  General intelligence is difficult to define and difficult to measure, and modern AI has had more verifiable successes by focusing on specific problems with specific solutions. The experimental sub-field of artificial general intelligence studies this area exclusively.
 The   does not know whether a machine can have a  ,   and  , in the same sense that human beings do. This issue considers the internal experiences of the machine, rather than its external behavior. Mainstream AI research considers this issue irrelevant because it does not affect the goals of the field: to build machines that can solve problems using intelligence.   and   add that "[t]he additional project of making a machine conscious in exactly the way humans are is not one that we are equipped to take on."  However, the question has become central to the philosophy of mind. It is also typically the central question at issue in  .
  identified two problems in understanding the mind, which he named the "hard" and "easy" problems of consciousness.  The easy problem is understanding how the brain processes signals, makes plans and controls behavior. The hard problem is explaining how this   or why it should feel like anything at all, assuming we are right in thinking that it truly does feel like something (Dennett's consciousness illusionism says this is an illusion). Human   is easy to explain, however, human   is difficult to explain. For example, it is easy to imagine a color-blind person who has learned to identify which objects in their field of view are red, but it is not clear what would be required for the person to  . 
 Computationalism is the position in the   that the human mind is an information processing system and that thinking is a form of computing. Computationalism argues that the relationship between mind and body is similar or identical to the relationship between software and hardware and thus may be a solution to the  . This philosophical position was inspired by the work of AI researchers and cognitive scientists in the 1960s and was originally proposed by philosophers   and  . 
 Philosopher   characterized this position as " ": "The appropriately programmed computer with the right inputs and outputs would thereby have a mind in exactly the same sense human beings have minds."  Searle counters this assertion with his Chinese room argument, which attempts to show that, even if a machine perfectly simulates human behavior, there is still no reason to suppose it also has a mind. 
 It is difficult or impossible to reliably evaluate whether an advanced   (has the ability to feel), and if so, to what degree.  But if there is a significant chance that a given machine can feel and suffer, then it may be entitled to certain rights or welfare protection measures, similarly to animals.    (a set of capacities related to high intelligence, such as discernment or  ) may provide another moral basis for AI rights.    are also sometimes proposed as a practical way to integrate autonomous agents into society. 
 In 2017, the European Union considered granting "electronic personhood" to some of the most capable AI systems. Similarly to the legal status of companies, it would have conferred rights but also responsibilities.  Critics argued in 2018 that granting rights to AI systems would downplay the importance of  , and that legislation should focus on user needs rather than speculative futuristic scenarios. They also noted that robots lacked the autonomy to take part to society on their own. 
 Progress in AI increased interest in the topic. Proponents of AI welfare and rights often argue that AI sentience, if it emerges, would be particularly easy to deny. They warn that this may be a   analogous to   or  , which could lead to   if sentient AI is created and carelessly exploited. 
 A   is a hypothetical agent that would possess intelligence far surpassing that of the brightest and most gifted human mind. 
 If research into   produced sufficiently intelligent software, it might be able to  . The improved software would be even better at improving itself, leading to what   called an " " and   called a " ". 
 However, technologies cannot improve exponentially indefinitely, and typically follow an  , slowing when they reach the physical limits of what the technology can do. 
 Robot designer  , cyberneticist  , and inventor   have predicted that humans and machines will merge in the future into   that are more capable and powerful than either. This idea, called transhumanism, has roots in   and  . 
  argues that "artificial intelligence is the next stage in evolution", an idea first proposed by  's " " as far back as 1863, and expanded upon by   in his book of the same name in 1998. 
 Thought-capable artificial beings have appeared as storytelling devices since antiquity,  and have been a persistent theme in  . 
 A common   in these works began with  's  , where a human creation becomes a threat to its masters. This includes such works as   and     (both 1968), with  , the murderous computer in charge of the   spaceship, as well as   (1984) and   (1999). In contrast, the rare loyal robots such as Gort from   (1951) and Bishop from   (1986) are less prominent in popular culture. 
  introduced the   in many books and stories, most notably the "Multivac" series about a super-intelligent computer of the same name. Asimov's laws are often brought up during lay discussions of machine ethics;  while almost all artificial intelligence researchers are familiar with Asimov's laws through popular culture, they generally consider the laws useless for many reasons, one of which is their ambiguity. 
 Several works use AI to force us to confront the fundamental question of what makes us human, showing us artificial beings that have  , and thus to suffer. This appears in  's  , the films   and  , as well as the novel  , by  . Dick considers the idea that our understanding of human subjectivity is altered by technology created with artificial intelligence. 
 The two most widely used textbooks in 2023. (See the  ).
 These were the four of the most widely used AI textbooks in 2008:
 Later editions.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Artificial+intelligence

Content: edits articles recent contributors

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:MyContributions

Content: No changes were found matching these criteria.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Artificial+intelligence

Content: edits articles recent contributors

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Search

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RecentChanges

Content: This is a list of recent changes to Wikipedia.


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_intelligence

Content: 
  ( ), in its broadest sense, is   exhibited by  , particularly  . It is a   in   that develops and studies methods and software which enable machines to   and uses   and intelligence to take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.  Such machines may be called AIs.
  is widely used  ,  , and science. Some high-profile applications include advanced   (e.g.,  );   (used by  ,  , and  ); interacting   (e.g.,  ,  , and  );   (e.g.,  );   and   tools (e.g.,   and  ); and   play and analysis in   (e.g.,   and  ).  However, many AI applications are not perceived as AI: "A lot of cutting edge AI has filtered into general applications, often without being called AI because once something becomes useful enough and common enough it's  ." 
  was the first person to conduct substantial research in the field that he called machine intelligence.  Artificial intelligence was founded as an academic discipline in 1956.  The field went through multiple cycles of optimism,  followed by periods of disappointment and loss of funding, known as  .  Funding and interest vastly increased after 2012 when   surpassed all previous AI techniques,  and after 2017 with the  .  This led to the   of the early 2020s, with companies, universities, and laboratories overwhelmingly based in the United States pioneering significant  . 
 The growing use of artificial intelligence in the 21st century is influencing   towards increased automation,  , and the   into various economic sectors and areas of life,  ,  , government, industry, and  . This raises questions about  ,  , and  , prompting discussions about   to ensure the  . 
 The various sub-fields of AI research are centered around particular goals and the use of particular tools. The traditional goals of AI research include  ,  ,  ,  ,  , perception, and support for  .   —the ability to complete any task performable by a human on an at least equal level—is among the field's long-term goals. 
 To reach these goals, AI researchers have adapted and integrated a wide range of techniques, including   and  ,  ,  , and methods based on  ,  , and  .  AI also draws upon  ,  ,  ,  , and other fields. 
 The general problem of simulating (or creating) intelligence has been broken into sub-problems. These consist of particular traits or capabilities that researchers expect an intelligent system to display. The traits described below have received the most attention and cover the scope of AI research. 
 Early researchers developed algorithms that imitated step-by-step reasoning that humans use when they solve puzzles or make logical  .  By the late 1980s and 1990s, methods were developed for dealing with   or incomplete information, employing concepts from   and  . 
 Many of these algorithms are insufficient for solving large reasoning problems because they experience a "combinatorial explosion": they became exponentially slower as the problems grew larger.  Even humans rarely use the step-by-step deduction that early AI research could model. They solve most of their problems using fast, intuitive judgments.  Accurate and efficient reasoning is an unsolved problem.
  and   allow AI programs to answer questions intelligently and make deductions about real-world facts. Formal knowledge representations are used in content-based indexing and retrieval,  scene interpretation,  clinical decision support,  knowledge discovery (mining "interesting" and actionable inferences from large  ),  and other areas. 
 A   is a body of knowledge represented in a form that can be used by a program. An   is the set of objects, relations, concepts, and properties used by a particular domain of knowledge.  Knowledge bases need to represent things such as: objects, properties, categories and relations between objects;  situations, events, states and time;  causes and effects;  knowledge about knowledge (what we know about what other people know);    (things that humans assume are true until they are told differently and will remain true even when other facts are changing);  and many other aspects and domains of knowledge.
 Among the most difficult problems in knowledge representation are: the breadth of commonsense knowledge (the set of atomic facts that the average person knows is enormous);  and the sub-symbolic form of most commonsense knowledge (much of what people know is not represented as "facts" or "statements" that they could express verbally).  There is also the difficulty of  , the problem of obtaining knowledge for AI applications. 
 An "agent" is anything that perceives and takes actions in the world. A   has goals or preferences and takes actions to make them happen.  In  , the agent has a specific goal.  In  , the agent has preferences—there are some situations it would prefer to be in, and some situations it is trying to avoid. The decision making agent assigns a number to each situation (called the " ") that measures how much the agent prefers it. For each possible action, it can calculate the " ": the   of all possible outcomes of the action, weighted by the probability that the outcome will occur. It can then choose the action with the maximum expected utility. 
 In  , the agent knows exactly what the effect of any action will be.  In most real-world problems, however, the agent may not be certain about the situation they are in (it is "unknown" or "unobservable") and it may not know for certain what will happen after each possible action (it is not "deterministic"). It must choose an action by making a probabilistic guess and then reassess the situation to see if the action worked. 
 In some problems, the agent's preferences may be uncertain, especially if there are other agents or humans involved. These can be learned (e.g., with  ) or the agent can seek information to improve its preferences.    can be used to weigh the value of exploratory or experimental actions.  The space of possible future actions and situations is typically   large, so the agents must take actions and evaluate situations while being uncertain what the outcome will be.
 A   has a   that describes the probability that a particular action will change the state in a particular way, and a   that supplies the utility of each state and the cost of each action. A   associates a decision with each possible state. The policy could be calculated (e.g., by  ), be  , or it can be learned. 
  describes rational behavior of multiple interacting agents, and is used in AI programs that make decisions that involve other agents. 
  is the study of programs that can improve their performance on a given task automatically.  It has been a part of AI from the beginning. 
 There are several kinds of machine learning.   analyzes a stream of data and finds patterns and makes predictions without any other guidance.    requires a human to label the input data first, and comes in two main varieties:   (where the program must learn to predict what category the input belongs in) and   (where the program must deduce a numeric function based on numeric input). 
 In   the agent is rewarded for good responses and punished for bad ones. The agent learns to choose responses that are classified as "good".    is when the knowledge gained from one problem is applied to a new problem.    is a type of machine learning that runs inputs through biologically inspired   for all of these types of learning. 
  can assess learners by  , by   (how much data is required), or by other notions of  . 
  (NLP)  allows programs to read, write and communicate in human languages such as  . Specific problems include  ,  ,  ,  ,   and  . 
 Early work, based on  's   and  , had difficulty with   unless restricted to small domains called " " (due to the common sense knowledge problem ).   believed that it was meaning and not grammar that was the key to understanding languages, and that   and not dictionaries should be the basis of computational language structure.
 Modern deep learning techniques for NLP include   (representing words, typically as   encoding their meaning),    (a deep learning architecture using an   mechanism),  and others.  In 2019,   (or "GPT") language models began to generate coherent text,  and by 2023 these models were able to get human-level scores on the  ,   test,   test, and many other real-world applications. 
  is the ability to use input from sensors (such as cameras, microphones, wireless signals, active  , sonar, radar, and  ) to deduce aspects of the world.   is the ability to analyze visual input. 
 The field includes  ,   ,   ,  ,  and  . 
  is an interdisciplinary umbrella that comprises systems that recognize, interpret, process or simulate human  .  For example, some   are programmed to speak conversationally or even to banter humorously; it makes them appear more sensitive to the emotional dynamics of human interaction, or to otherwise facilitate  .
 However, this tends to give naïve users an unrealistic conception of the intelligence of existing computer agents.  Moderate successes related to affective computing include textual   and, more recently,  , wherein AI classifies the affects displayed by a videotaped subject. 
 A machine with   should be able to solve a wide variety of problems with breadth and versatility similar to human intelligence. 
 AI research uses a wide variety of techniques to accomplish the goals above. 
 AI can solve many problems by intelligently searching through many possible solutions.  There are two very different kinds of search used in AI:   and  .
  searches through a tree of possible states to try to find a goal state.  For example,   algorithms search through trees of goals and subgoals, attempting to find a path to a target goal, a process called  . 
  are rarely sufficient for most real-world problems: the   (the number of places to search) quickly grows to  . The result is a search that is   or never completes.  " " or "rules of thumb" can help to prioritize choices that are more likely to reach a goal. 
  is used for   programs, such as chess or Go. It searches through a   of possible moves and counter-moves, looking for a winning position. 
  uses   to find a solution to a problem. It begins with some form of guess and refines it incrementally. 
  is a type of local search that optimizes a set of numerical parameters by incrementally adjusting them to minimize a  . Variants of gradient descent are commonly used to train neural networks. 
 Another type of local search is  , which aims to iteratively improve a set of candidate solutions by "mutating" and "recombining" them,   only the fittest to survive each generation. 
 Distributed search processes can coordinate via   algorithms. Two popular swarm algorithms used in search are   (inspired by bird  ) and   (inspired by  ). 
 Formal   is used for   and  . 
Formal logic comes in two main forms:   (which operates on statements that are true or false and uses   such as "and", "or", "not" and "implies")  and   (which also operates on objects, predicates and relations and uses   such as "    is a  " and "There are    s that are  s"). 
  in logic is the process of   a new statement ( ) from other statements that are given and assumed to be true (the  ).  Proofs can be structured as proof  , in which nodes are labelled by sentences, and children nodes are connected to  parent nodes by  .
 Given a problem and a set of premises, problem-solving reduces to searching for a proof tree whose root node is labelled by a solution of the problem and whose leaf nodes are labelled by premises or  . In the case of  , problem-solving search can be performed by reasoning   from the premises or   from the problem.  In the more general case of the clausal form of  ,   is a single, axiom-free rule of inference, in which a problem is solved by proving a contradiction from premises that include the negation of the problem to be solved. 
 Inference in both Horn clause logic and first-order logic is  , and therefore  . However, backward reasoning with Horn clauses, which underpins computation in the   language  , is  . Moreover, its efficiency is competitive with computation in other   languages. 
  assigns a "degree of truth" between 0 and 1. It can therefore handle propositions that are vague and partially true. 
 , including logic programming with  , are designed to handle  . 
Other specialized versions of logic have been developed to describe many complex domains.
 Many problems in AI (including in reasoning, planning, learning, perception, and robotics) require the agent to operate with incomplete or uncertain information. AI researchers have devised a number of tools to solve these problems using methods from   theory and economics.  Precise mathematical tools have been developed that analyze how an agent can make choices and plan, using  ,  ,  and  .  These tools include models such as  ,  dynamic  ,    and  . 
  are a tool that can be used for   (using the   algorithm),    (using the  ),    (using  )  and   (using  ). 
 
Probabilistic algorithms can also be used for filtering, prediction, smoothing and finding explanations for streams of data, helping   systems to analyze processes that occur over time (e.g.,   or  ). The simplest AI applications can be divided into two types: classifiers (e.g., "if shiny then diamond"), on one hand, and controllers (e.g., "if diamond then pick up"), on the other hand.   are functions that use   to determine the closest match. They can be fine-tuned based on chosen examples using  . Each pattern (also called an " ") is labeled with a certain predefined class. All the observations combined with their class labels are known as a  . When a new observation is received, that observation is classified based on previous experience. 
 There are many kinds of classifiers in use. The   is the simplest and most widely used symbolic machine learning algorithm.    algorithm was the most widely used analogical AI until the mid-1990s, and   such as the   (SVM) displaced k-nearest neighbor in the 1990s. 
The   is reportedly the "most widely used learner"  at Google, due in part to its scalability. 
  are also used as classifiers. 
 An artificial neural network is based on a collection of nodes also known as  , which loosely model the   in a biological brain. It is trained to recognise patterns; once trained, it can recognise those patterns in fresh data. There is an input, at least one hidden layer of nodes and an output. Each node applies a function and once the   crosses its specified threshold, the data is transmitted to the next layer. A network is typically called a deep neural network if it has at least 2 hidden layers. 
 Learning algorithms for neural networks use   to choose the weights that will get the right output for each input during training. The most common training technique is the   algorithm. 
Neural networks learn to model complex relationships between inputs and outputs and   in data. In theory, a neural network can learn any function. 
 In   the signal passes in only one direction.    feed the output signal back into the input, which allows short-term memories of previous input events.   is the most successful network architecture for recurrent networks. 
 
use only a single layer of neurons, deep learning  uses multiple layers.
  strengthen the connection between neurons that are "close" to each other—this is especially important in  , where a local set of neurons must   before the network can identify an object. 
 Deep learning 
uses several layers of neurons between the network's inputs and outputs. The multiple layers can progressively extract higher-level features from the raw input. For example, in  , lower layers may identify edges, while higher layers may identify the concepts relevant to a human such as digits or letters or faces. 
 Deep learning has profoundly improved the performance of programs in many important subfields of artificial intelligence, including  ,  ,  ,   and others. The reason that deep learning performs so well in so many applications is not known as of 2023. 
The sudden success of deep learning in 2012–2015 did not occur because of some new discovery or theoretical breakthrough (deep neural networks and backpropagation had been described by many people, as far back as the 1950s) 
but because of two factors: the incredible increase in computer power (including the hundred-fold increase in speed by switching to  ) and the availability of vast amounts of training data, especially the giant   used for benchmark testing, such as  . 
  (GPT) are   that are based on the semantic relationships between words in sentences ( ). Text-based GPT models are pre-trained on a large corpus of text which can be from the internet. The pre-training consists in predicting the next   (a token being usually a word, subword, or punctuation). Throughout this pre-training, GPT models accumulate knowledge about the world, and can then generate human-like text by repeatedly predicting the next token. Typically, a subsequent training phase makes the model more truthful, useful and harmless, usually with a technique called   (RLHF). Current GPT models are still prone to generating falsehoods called " ", although this can be reduced with RLHF and quality data. They are used in  , which allow you to ask a question or request a task in simple text. 
 Current models and services include:   (formerly Bard),  ,  ,  ,   and  .    GPT models can process different types of data ( ) such as images, videos, sound and text. 
 In the late 2010s,   (GPUs) that were increasingly designed with AI-specific enhancements and used with specialized   software, had replaced previously used   (CPUs) as the dominant means for large-scale (commercial and academic)   models' training.  Historically, specialized languages, such as  ,  ,   and others, had been used.
 AI and machine learning technology is used in most of the essential applications of the 2020s, including:   (such as  ),  ,   (offered by  ,   or  ), driving  ,   ( ,  ),   (such as   or  ),   (including  ,   and  ),   ( ,  ),   ( 's   or  's   and  's  ) and   (used by  , Apple's   and  ).
 The application of AI in   and   has the potential to increase patient care and quality of life.  Through the lens of the  , medical professionals are ethically compelled to use AI, if applications can more accurately diagnose and treat patients.
 For medical research, AI is an important tool for processing and integrating  . This is particularly important for   and   development which use   imaging as a key technique in fabrication.  It has been suggested that AI can overcome discrepancies in funding allocated to different fields of research.  New AI tools can deepen the understanding of biomedically relevant pathways. For example,   (2021) demonstrated the ability to approximate, in hours rather than months, the 3D  .  In 2023, it was reported that AI-guided drug discovery helped find a class of antibiotics capable of killing two different types of drug-resistant bacteria.  In 2024, researchers used machine learning to accelerate the search for   drug treatments. Their aim was to identify compounds that block the clumping, or aggregation, of   (the protein that characterises Parkinson's disease). They were able to speed up the initial screening process ten-fold, and to reduce the cost by a thousand-fold. 
  programs have been used since the 1950s to demonstrate and test AI's most advanced techniques.    became the first computer chess-playing system to beat a reigning world chess champion,  , on 11 May 1997.  In 2011, in a     exhibition match,  's  ,  , defeated the two greatest   champions,   and  , by a significant margin.  In March 2016,   won 4 out of 5 games of   in a match with Go champion  , becoming the first  -playing system to beat a professional Go player without  . Then in 2017 it  , who was the best Go player in the world.  Other programs handle   games, such as the  -playing program  .    developed increasingly generalistic   models, such as with  , which could be trained to play chess, Go, or   games.  In 2019, DeepMind's AlphaStar achieved grandmaster level in  , a particularly challenging real-time strategy game that involves incomplete knowledge of what happens on the map.  In 2021, an AI agent competed in a PlayStation Gran Turismo competition, winning against four of the world's best Gran Turismo drivers using deep reinforcement learning. 
 Various countries are deploying AI military applications.  The main applications enhance  , communications, sensors, integration and interoperability.  Research is targeting intelligence collection and analysis, logistics, cyber operations, information operations, and semiautonomous and  .  AI technologies enable coordination of sensors and effectors, threat detection and identification, marking of enemy positions,  , coordination and deconfliction of distributed   between networked combat vehicles involving manned and unmanned teams.  AI was incorporated into military operations in Iraq and Syria. 
 In November 2023, US Vice President   disclosed a declaration signed by 31 nations to set guardrails for the military use of AI. The commitments include using legal reviews to ensure the compliance of military AI with international laws, and being cautious and transparent in the development of this technology. 
 In the early 2020s,   gained widespread prominence. In March 2023, 58% of U.S. adults had heard about   and 14% had tried it.  The increasing realism and ease-of-use of AI-based   generators such as  ,  , and   sparked a trend of   AI-generated photos. Widespread attention was gained by a fake photo of   wearing a white puffer coat, the fictional arrest of  , and a hoax of an attack on the  , as well as the usage in professional creative arts. 
 There are also thousands of successful AI applications used to solve specific problems for specific industries or institutions. In a 2017 survey, one in five companies reported they had incorporated "AI" in some offerings or processes.  A few examples are  , medical diagnosis, military logistics, applications that predict the result of judicial decisions,  , or supply chain management.
 In agriculture, AI has helped farmers identify areas that need irrigation, fertilization, pesticide treatments or increasing yield. Agronomists use AI to conduct research and development. AI has been used to predict the ripening time for crops such as tomatoes, monitor soil moisture, operate agricultural robots, conduct predictive analytics, classify livestock pig call emotions, automate greenhouses, detect diseases and pests, and save water.
 Artificial intelligence is used in astronomy to analyze increasing amounts of available data and applications, mainly for "classification, regression, clustering, forecasting, generation, discovery, and the development of new scientific insights" for example for discovering exoplanets, forecasting solar activity, and distinguishing between signals and instrumental effects in gravitational wave astronomy. It could also be used for activities in space such as space exploration, including analysis of data from space missions, real-time science decisions of spacecraft, space debris avoidance, and more autonomous operation.
 AI has potential benefits and potential risks. AI may be able to advance science and find solutions for serious problems:   of   hopes to "solve intelligence, and then use that to solve everything else".  However, as the use of AI has become widespread, several unintended consequences and risks have been identified.  In-production systems can sometimes not factor ethics and bias into their AI training processes, especially when the AI algorithms are inherently unexplainable in deep learning. 
 Machine-learning algorithms require large amounts of data. The techniques used to acquire this data have raised concerns about  ,   and  .
 Technology companies collect a wide range of data from their users, including online activity, geolocation data, video and audio. 
For example, in order to build   algorithms,   has recorded millions of private conversations and allowed   to listen to and transcribe some of them.  Opinions about this widespread   range from those who see it as a   to those for whom it is clearly   and a violation of the  . 
 AI developers argue that this is the only way to deliver valuable applications. and have developed several techniques that attempt to preserve privacy while still obtaining the data, such as  ,   and  .  Since 2016, some privacy experts, such as  , have begun to view privacy in terms of  .   wrote that experts have pivoted "from the question of 'what they know' to the question of 'what they're doing with it'." 
 Generative AI is often trained on unlicensed copyrighted works, including in domains such as images or computer code; the output is then used under the rationale of " ". Website owners who do not wish to have their copyrighted content AI-indexed or 'scraped' can add code to their site if they do not want their website to be indexed by a search engine, which is currently available through certain services such as  . Experts disagree about how well and under what circumstances this rationale will hold up in courts of law; relevant factors may include "the purpose and character of the use of the copyrighted work" and "the effect upon the potential market for the copyrighted work".  In 2023, leading authors (including   and  ) sued AI companies for using their work to train generative AI. 
 ,   and others use   to guide users to more content. These AI programs were given the goal of   user engagement (that is, the only goal was to keep people watching). The AI learned that users tended to choose  ,  , and extreme   content, and, to keep them watching, the AI recommended more of it. Users also tended to watch more content on the same subject, so the AI led people into   where they received multiple versions of the same misinformation.  This convinced many users that the misinformation was true, and ultimately undermined trust in institutions, the media and the government.  The AI program had correctly learned to maximize its goal, but the result was harmful to society. After the U.S. election in 2016, major technology companies took steps to mitigate the problem.
 In 2022,   began to create images, audio, video and text that are indistinguishable from real photographs, recordings, films or human writing. It is possible for bad actors to use this technology to create massive amounts of misinformation or propaganda.  AI pioneer   expressed concern about AI enabling "authoritarian leaders to manipulate their electorates" on a large scale, among other risks. 
 Machine learning applications will be biased if they learn from biased data.  The developers may not be aware that the bias exists. 
Bias can be introduced by the way   is selected and by the way a model is deployed.  If a biased algorithm is used to make decisions that can seriously   people (as it can in  ,  ,  ,   or  ) then the algorithm may cause  . 
  in machine learning is the study of how to prevent the harm caused by algorithmic bias. It has become serious area of academic study within AI. Researchers have discovered it is not always possible to define "fairness" in a way that satisfies all stakeholders. 
 On June 28, 2015,  's new image labeling feature mistakenly identified Jacky Alcine and a friend as "gorillas" because they were black. The system was trained on a dataset that contained very few images of black people,  a problem called "sample size disparity".  Google "fixed" this problem by preventing the system from labelling   as a "gorilla". Eight years later, in 2023, Google Photos still could not identify a gorilla, and neither could similar products from Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Amazon. 
  is a commercial program widely used by   to assess the likelihood of a   becoming a  .
In 2016,   at   discovered that COMPAS exhibited racial bias, despite the fact that the program was not told the races of the defendants. Although the error rate for both whites and blacks was calibrated equal at exactly 61%, the errors for each race were different—the system consistently overestimated the chance that a black person would re-offend and would underestimate the chance that a white person would not re-offend.  In 2017, several researchers  showed that it was mathematically impossible for COMPAS to accommodate all possible measures of fairness when the base rates of re-offense were different for whites and blacks in the data. 
 A program can make biased decisions even if the data does not explicitly mention a problematic feature (such as "race" or "gender"). The feature will correlate with other features (like "address", "shopping history" or "first name"), and the program will make the same decisions based on these features as it would on "race" or "gender". 
Moritz Hardt said "the most robust fact in this research area is that fairness through blindness doesn't work." 
 Criticism of COMPAS highlighted that machine learning models are designed to make "predictions" that are only valid if we assume that the future will resemble the past. If they are trained on data that includes the results of racist decisions in the past, machine learning models must predict that racist decisions will be made in the future. If an application then uses these predictions as  , some of these "recommendations" will likely be racist.  Thus, machine learning is not well suited to help make decisions in areas where there is hope that the future will be   than the past. It is necessarily descriptive and not proscriptive. 
 Bias and unfairness may go undetected because the developers are overwhelmingly white and male: among AI engineers, about 4% are black and 20% are women. 
 At its 2022   (ACM FAccT 2022), the  , in Seoul, South Korea, presented and published findings that recommend that until AI and robotics systems are demonstrated to be free of bias mistakes, they are unsafe, and the use of self-learning neural networks trained on vast, unregulated sources of flawed internet data should be curtailed. 
 Many AI systems are so complex that their designers cannot explain how they reach their decisions.  Particularly with  , in which there are a large amount of non-  relationships between inputs and outputs. But some popular explainability techniques exist. 
 It is impossible to be certain that a program is operating correctly if no one knows how exactly it works. There have been many cases where a machine learning program passed rigorous tests, but nevertheless learned something different than what the programmers intended. For example, a system that could identify skin diseases better than medical professionals was found to actually have a strong tendency to classify images with a   as "cancerous", because pictures of malignancies typically include a ruler to show the scale.  Another machine learning system designed to help effectively allocate medical resources was found to classify patients with asthma as being at "low risk" of dying from pneumonia. Having asthma is actually a severe risk factor, but since the patients having asthma would usually get much more medical care, they were relatively unlikely to die according to the training data. The correlation between asthma and low risk of dying from pneumonia was real, but misleading. 
 People who have been harmed by an algorithm's decision have a right to an explanation.  Doctors, for example, are expected to clearly and completely explain to their colleagues the reasoning behind any decision they make. Early drafts of the European Union's   in 2016 included an explicit statement that this right exists.  Industry experts noted that this is an unsolved problem with no solution in sight. Regulators argued that nevertheless the harm is real: if the problem has no solution, the tools should not be used. 
  established the   ("Explainable Artificial Intelligence") program in 2014 to try and solve these problems.  
 There are several possible solutions to the transparency problem. SHAP tried to solve the transparency problems by visualising the contribution of each feature to the output.  LIME can locally approximate a model with a simpler, interpretable model.    provides a large number of outputs in addition to the target classification. These other outputs can help developers deduce what the network has learned.   ,   and other   methods can allow developers to see what different layers of a deep network have learned and produce output that can suggest what the network is learning. 
 Artificial intelligence provides a number of tools that are useful to  , such as  ,  ,   or  .
 A lethal autonomous weapon is a machine that locates, selects and engages human targets without human supervision.  Widely available AI tools can be used by bad actors to develop inexpensive autonomous weapons and, if produced at scale, they are potentially  .  Even when used in conventional warfare, it is unlikely that they will be unable to reliably choose targets and could potentially  .  In 2014, 30 nations (including China) supported a ban on autonomous weapons under the  '  , however the   and others disagreed.  By 2015, over fifty countries were reported to be researching battlefield robots. 
 AI tools make it easier for   to efficiently control their citizens in several ways.   and   allow widespread  .  , operating this data, can   potential enemies of the state and prevent them from hiding.   can precisely target   and   for maximum effect.   and   aid in producing misinformation. Advanced AI can make authoritarian   more competitive than liberal and decentralized systems such as  . It lowers the cost and difficulty of   and  .  All these technologies have been available since 2020 or earlier—AI   are already being used for   in China. 
 There many other ways that AI is expected to help bad actors, some of which can not be foreseen. For example, machine-learning AI is able to design tens of thousands of toxic molecules in a matter of hours. 
 Training AI systems requires an enormous amount of computing power. Usually only   companies have the financial resources to make such investments. Smaller startups such as   and   end up buying access to   from   and   respectively. 
 Economists have frequently highlighted the risks of redundancies from AI, and speculated about unemployment if there is no adequate social policy for full employment. 
 In the past, technology has tended to increase rather than reduce total employment, but economists acknowledge that "we're in uncharted territory" with AI.  A survey of economists showed disagreement about whether the increasing use of robots and AI will cause a substantial increase in long-term  , but they generally agree that it could be a net benefit if   gains are  .  Risk estimates vary; for example, in the 2010s, Michael Osborne and   estimated 47% of U.S. jobs are at "high risk" of potential automation, while an OECD report classified only 9% of U.S. jobs as "high risk".  The methodology of speculating about future employment levels has been criticised as lacking evidential foundation, and for implying that technology, rather than social policy, creates unemployment, as opposed to redundancies.  In April 2023, it was reported that 70% of the jobs for Chinese video game illustrators had been eliminated by generative artificial intelligence. 
 Unlike previous waves of automation, many middle-class jobs may be eliminated by artificial intelligence;   stated in 2015 that "the worry that AI could do to white-collar jobs what steam power did to blue-collar ones during the Industrial Revolution" is "worth taking seriously".  Jobs at extreme risk range from   to fast food cooks, while job demand is likely to increase for care-related professions ranging from personal healthcare to the clergy. 
 From the early days of the development of artificial intelligence, there have been arguments, for example, those put forward by  , about whether tasks that can be done by computers actually should be done by them, given the difference between computers and humans, and between quantitative calculation and qualitative, value-based judgement. 
 It has been argued AI will become so powerful that humanity may irreversibly lose control of it. This could, as physicist   stated, " ".  This scenario has been common in science fiction, when a computer or robot suddenly develops a human-like "self-awareness" (or "sentience" or "consciousness") and becomes a malevolent character.  These sci-fi scenarios are misleading in several ways.
 First, AI does not require human-like " " to be an existential risk. Modern AI programs are given specific goals and use learning and intelligence to achieve them. Philosopher   argued that if one gives   goal to a sufficiently powerful AI, it may choose to destroy humanity to achieve it (he used the example of a  ).    gives the example of household robot that tries to find a way to kill its owner to prevent it from being unplugged, reasoning that "you can't fetch the coffee if you're dead."  In order to be safe for humanity, a   would have to be genuinely   with humanity's morality and values so that it is "fundamentally on our side". 
 Second,   argues that AI does not require a robot body or physical control to pose an existential risk. The essential parts of civilization are not physical. Things like  ,  ,  ,   and the   are made of  ; they exist because there are stories that billions of people believe. The current prevalence of   suggests that an AI could use language to convince people to believe anything, even to take actions that are destructive. 
 The opinions amongst experts and industry insiders are mixed, with sizable fractions both concerned and unconcerned by risk from eventual superintelligent AI.  Personalities such as  ,  , and   have expressed concern about existential risk from AI. 
AI pioneers including  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , and   have expressed concerns about the risks of AI. In 2023, many leading AI experts issued the joint statement that "Mitigating the risk of extinction from AI should be a global priority alongside other societal-scale risks such as pandemics and nuclear war". 
 Other researchers, however, spoke in favor of a less dystopian view. AI pioneer   did not sign the joint statement, emphasising that in 95% of all cases, AI research is about making "human lives longer and healthier and easier."  While the tools that are now being used to improve lives can also be used by bad actors, "they can also be used against the bad actors."    also argued that "it's a mistake to fall for the doomsday hype on AI—and that regulators who do will only benefit vested interests."    "scoffs at his peers' dystopian scenarios of supercharged misinformation and even, eventually, human extinction."  In the early 2010s, experts argued that the risks are too distant in the future to warrant research or that humans will be valuable from the perspective of a superintelligent machine.  However, after 2016, the study of current and future risks and possible solutions became a serious area of research. 
 Friendly AI are machines that have been designed from the beginning to minimize risks and to make choices that benefit humans.  , who coined the term, argues that developing friendly AI should be a higher research priority: it may require a large investment and it must be completed before AI becomes an existential risk. 
 Machines with intelligence have the potential to use their intelligence to make ethical decisions. The field of machine ethics provides machines with ethical principles and procedures for resolving ethical dilemmas. 
The field of machine ethics is also called computational morality, 
and was founded at an   symposium in 2005. 
 Other approaches include  's "artificial moral agents"  and  's   for developing provably beneficial machines. 
 Active organizations in the AI open-source community include  ,   ,    and  .  Various AI models, such as  ,   or  , have been made open-weight,  meaning that their architecture and trained parameters (the "weights") are publicly available. Open-weight models can be freely  , which allows companies to specialize them with their own data and for their own use-case.  Open-weight models are useful for research and innovation, but can also be misused. Since they can be fine-tuned, any built-in security measure, such as objecting to harmful requests, can be trained away until it becomes ineffective. Some researchers warn that future AI models may develop dangerous capabilities (such as the potential to drastically facilitate  ), and that once released on the Internet, they can't be deleted everywhere if needed. They recommend pre-release audits and cost-benefit analyses. 
 Artificial Intelligence projects can have their ethical permissibility tested while designing, developing, and implementing an AI system. An AI framework such as the Care and Act Framework containing the SUM values—developed by the   tests projects in four main areas: 
 Other developments in ethical frameworks include those decided upon during the  , the Montreal Declaration for Responsible AI, and the IEEE's Ethics of Autonomous Systems initiative, among others;  however, these principles do not go without their criticisms, especially regards to the people chosen contributes to these frameworks. 
 Promotion of the wellbeing of the people and communities that these technologies affect requires consideration of the social and ethical implications at all stages of AI system design, development and implementation, and collaboration between job roles such as data scientists, product managers, data engineers, domain experts, and delivery managers. 
 The regulation of artificial intelligence is the development of public sector policies and laws for promoting and regulating artificial intelligence (AI); it is therefore related to the broader regulation of algorithms.  The regulatory and policy landscape for AI is an emerging issue in jurisdictions globally.  According to AI Index at  , the annual number of AI-related laws passed in the 127 survey countries jumped from one passed in 2016 to 37 passed in 2022 alone.  Between 2016 and 2020, more than 30 countries adopted dedicated strategies for AI.  Most EU member states had released national AI strategies, as had Canada, China, India, Japan, Mauritius, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, U.S., and Vietnam. Others were in the process of elaborating their own AI strategy, including Bangladesh, Malaysia and Tunisia.  The   was launched in June 2020, stating a need for AI to be developed in accordance with human rights and democratic values, to ensure public confidence and trust in the technology.   ,  , and   published a joint statement in November 2021 calling for a government commission to regulate AI.  In 2023, OpenAI leaders published recommendations for the governance of superintelligence, which they believe may happen in less than 10 years.  In 2023, the United Nations also launched an advisory body to provide recommendations on AI governance; the body comprises technology company executives, governments officials and academics. 
 In a 2022   survey, attitudes towards AI varied greatly by country; 78% of Chinese citizens, but only 35% of Americans, agreed that "products and services using AI have more benefits than drawbacks".  A 2023  /Ipsos poll found that 61% of Americans agree, and 22% disagree, that AI poses risks to humanity.  In a 2023   poll, 35% of Americans thought it "very important", and an additional 41% thought it "somewhat important", for the federal government to regulate AI, versus 13% responding "not very important" and 8% responding "not at all important". 
 In November 2023, the first global   was held in   in the UK to discuss the near and far term risks of AI and the possibility of mandatory and voluntary regulatory frameworks.  28 countries including the United States, China, and the European Union issued a declaration at the start of the summit, calling for international co-operation to manage the challenges and risks of artificial intelligence. 
 The study of mechanical or "formal" reasoning began with philosophers and mathematicians in antiquity. The study of logic led directly to  's  , which suggested that a machine, by shuffling symbols as simple as "0" and "1", could simulate any conceivable form of mathematical reasoning.  This, along with concurrent discoveries in  ,   and  , led researchers to consider the possibility of building an "electronic brain".  
They developed several areas of research that would become part of AI, 
such as   and   design for "artificial neurons" in 1943,  and Turing's influential 1950 paper ' ', which introduced the   and showed that "machine intelligence" was plausible. 
 The field of AI research was founded at   at   in 1956.  The attendees became the leaders of AI research in the 1960s.  They and their students produced programs that the press described as "astonishing":  computers were learning   strategies, solving word problems in algebra, proving   and speaking English.  Artificial intelligence laboratories were set up at a number of British and U.S. Universities in the latter 1950s and early 1960s. 
 Researchers in the 1960s and the 1970s were convinced that their methods would eventually succeed in creating a machine with   and considered this the goal of their field.    predicted, "machines will be capable, within twenty years, of doing any work a man can do".    agreed, writing, "within a generation ... the problem of creating 'artificial intelligence' will substantially be solved".  They had, however, underestimated the difficulty of the problem.  In 1974, both the U.S. and British governments cut off exploratory research in response to the   of   and ongoing pressure from the U.S. Congress to  .   's and  's book   was understood as proving that   would never be useful for solving real-world tasks, thus discrediting the approach altogether.  The " ", a period when obtaining funding for AI projects was difficult, followed. 
 In the early 1980s, AI research was revived by the commercial success of  ,  a form of AI program that simulated the knowledge and analytical skills of human experts. By 1985, the market for AI had reached over a billion dollars. At the same time, Japan's   project inspired the U.S. and British governments to restore funding for  .  However, beginning with the collapse of the   market in 1987, AI once again fell into disrepute, and a second, longer-lasting winter began. 
 Up to this point, most of AI's funding had gone to projects which used high level   to represent   like plans, goals, beliefs and known facts. In the 1980s, some researchers began to doubt that this approach would be able to imitate all the processes of human cognition, especially  ,  ,   and  ,  and began to look into "sub-symbolic" approaches.    rejected "representation" in general and focussed directly on engineering machines that move and survive.   ,   and others developed methods that handled incomplete and uncertain information by making reasonable guesses rather than precise logic.  But the most important development was the revival of " ", including neural network research, by   and others.  In 1990,   successfully showed that   can recognize handwritten digits, the first of many successful applications of neural networks. 
 AI gradually restored its reputation in the late 1990s and early 21st century by exploiting formal mathematical methods and by finding specific solutions to specific problems. This " " and "formal" focus allowed researchers to produce verifiable results and collaborate with other fields (such as  ,   and  ).  By 2000, solutions developed by AI researchers were being widely used, although in the 1990s they were rarely described as "artificial intelligence". 
However, several academic researchers became concerned that AI was no longer pursuing its original goal of creating versatile, fully intelligent machines. Beginning around 2002, they founded the subfield of   (or "AGI"), which had several well-funded institutions by the 2010s. 
  began to dominate industry benchmarks in 2012 and was adopted throughout the field. 
For many specific tasks, other methods were abandoned. 
Deep learning's success was based on both hardware improvements ( ,   ,  ) and access to   (including curated datasets,  such as  ). Deep learning's success led to an enormous increase in interest and funding in AI.  The amount of machine learning research (measured by total publications) increased by 50% in the years 2015–2019. 
 In 2016, issues of   and the misuse of technology were catapulted into center stage at machine learning conferences, publications vastly increased, funding became available, and many researchers re-focussed their careers on these issues. The   became a serious field of academic study. 
 In the late teens and early 2020s,   companies began to deliver programs that created enormous interest. In 2015,  , developed by  , beat the world champion  . The program was taught only the rules of the game and developed strategy by itself.   is a   that was released in 2020 by   and is capable of generating high-quality human-like text.  These programs, and others, inspired an aggressive  , where large companies began investing billions in AI research. According to 'AI Impacts', about $50 billion annually was invested in "AI" around 2022 in the U.S. alone and about 20% of the new U.S. Computer Science PhD graduates have specialized in "AI". 
About 800,000 "AI"-related U.S. job openings existed in 2022. 
  wrote in 1950 "I propose to consider the question 'can machines think'?"  He advised changing the question from whether a machine "thinks", to "whether or not it is possible for machinery to show intelligent behaviour".  He devised the Turing test, which measures the ability of a machine to simulate human conversation.  Since we can only observe the behavior of the machine, it does not matter if it is "actually" thinking or literally has a "mind". Turing notes that   but "it is usual to have a polite convention that everyone thinks" 
  and   agree with Turing that intelligence must be defined in terms of external behavior, not internal structure.  However, they are critical that the test requires the machine to imitate humans. "  texts," they wrote, "do not define the goal of their field as making 'machines that fly so exactly like   that they can fool other pigeons. "  AI founder   agreed, writing that "Artificial intelligence is not, by definition, simulation of human intelligence". 
 McCarthy defines intelligence as "the computational part of the ability to achieve goals in the world."  Another AI founder,   similarly describes it as "the ability to solve hard problems".  The leading AI textbook defines it as the study of agents that perceive their environment and take actions that maximize their chances of achieving defined goals.  These definitions view intelligence in terms of well-defined problems with well-defined solutions, where both the difficulty of the problem and the performance of the program are direct measures of the "intelligence" of the machine—and no other philosophical discussion is required, or may not even be possible.
 Another definition has been adopted by Google,  a major practitioner in the field of AI. This definition stipulates the ability of systems to synthesize information as the manifestation of intelligence, similar to the way it is defined in biological intelligence.
 No established unifying theory or   has guided AI research for most of its history.  The unprecedented success of statistical machine learning in the 2010s eclipsed all other approaches (so much so that some sources, especially in the business world, use the term "artificial intelligence" to mean "machine learning with neural networks"). This approach is mostly  ,   and  . Critics argue that these questions may have to be revisited by future generations of AI researchers.
  (or " ")  simulated the high-level conscious reasoning that people use when they solve puzzles, express legal reasoning and do mathematics. They were highly successful at "intelligent" tasks such as algebra or IQ tests. In the 1960s, Newell and Simon proposed the  : "A physical symbol system has the necessary and sufficient means of general intelligent action." 
 However, the symbolic approach failed on many tasks that humans solve easily, such as learning, recognizing an object or commonsense reasoning.   is the discovery that high-level "intelligent" tasks were easy for AI, but low level "instinctive" tasks were extremely difficult.  Philosopher   had   since the 1960s that human expertise depends on unconscious instinct rather than conscious symbol manipulation, and on having a "feel" for the situation, rather than explicit symbolic knowledge.  Although his arguments had been ridiculed and ignored when they were first presented, eventually, AI research came to agree with him. 
 The issue is not resolved:   reasoning can make many of the same inscrutable mistakes that human intuition does, such as  . Critics such as   argue continuing research into symbolic AI will still be necessary to attain general intelligence,  in part because sub-symbolic AI is a move away from  : it can be difficult or impossible to understand why a modern statistical AI program made a particular decision. The emerging field of   attempts to bridge the two approaches.
 "Neats" hope that intelligent behavior is described using simple, elegant principles (such as  ,  , or  ). "Scruffies" expect that it necessarily requires solving a large number of unrelated problems. Neats defend their programs with theoretical rigor, scruffies rely mainly on incremental testing to see if they work. This issue was actively discussed in the 1970s and 1980s,  but eventually was seen as irrelevant. Modern AI has elements of both.
 Finding a provably correct or optimal solution is   for many important problems.  Soft computing is a set of techniques, including  ,   and neural networks, that are tolerant of imprecision, uncertainty, partial truth and approximation. Soft computing was introduced in the late 1980s and most successful AI programs in the 21st century are examples of soft computing with neural networks.
 AI researchers are divided as to whether to pursue the goals of artificial general intelligence and   directly or to solve as many specific problems as possible (narrow AI) in hopes these solutions will lead indirectly to the field's long-term goals.  General intelligence is difficult to define and difficult to measure, and modern AI has had more verifiable successes by focusing on specific problems with specific solutions. The experimental sub-field of artificial general intelligence studies this area exclusively.
 The   does not know whether a machine can have a  ,   and  , in the same sense that human beings do. This issue considers the internal experiences of the machine, rather than its external behavior. Mainstream AI research considers this issue irrelevant because it does not affect the goals of the field: to build machines that can solve problems using intelligence.   and   add that "[t]he additional project of making a machine conscious in exactly the way humans are is not one that we are equipped to take on."  However, the question has become central to the philosophy of mind. It is also typically the central question at issue in  .
  identified two problems in understanding the mind, which he named the "hard" and "easy" problems of consciousness.  The easy problem is understanding how the brain processes signals, makes plans and controls behavior. The hard problem is explaining how this   or why it should feel like anything at all, assuming we are right in thinking that it truly does feel like something (Dennett's consciousness illusionism says this is an illusion). Human   is easy to explain, however, human   is difficult to explain. For example, it is easy to imagine a color-blind person who has learned to identify which objects in their field of view are red, but it is not clear what would be required for the person to  . 
 Computationalism is the position in the   that the human mind is an information processing system and that thinking is a form of computing. Computationalism argues that the relationship between mind and body is similar or identical to the relationship between software and hardware and thus may be a solution to the  . This philosophical position was inspired by the work of AI researchers and cognitive scientists in the 1960s and was originally proposed by philosophers   and  . 
 Philosopher   characterized this position as " ": "The appropriately programmed computer with the right inputs and outputs would thereby have a mind in exactly the same sense human beings have minds."  Searle counters this assertion with his Chinese room argument, which attempts to show that, even if a machine perfectly simulates human behavior, there is still no reason to suppose it also has a mind. 
 It is difficult or impossible to reliably evaluate whether an advanced   (has the ability to feel), and if so, to what degree.  But if there is a significant chance that a given machine can feel and suffer, then it may be entitled to certain rights or welfare protection measures, similarly to animals.    (a set of capacities related to high intelligence, such as discernment or  ) may provide another moral basis for AI rights.    are also sometimes proposed as a practical way to integrate autonomous agents into society. 
 In 2017, the European Union considered granting "electronic personhood" to some of the most capable AI systems. Similarly to the legal status of companies, it would have conferred rights but also responsibilities.  Critics argued in 2018 that granting rights to AI systems would downplay the importance of  , and that legislation should focus on user needs rather than speculative futuristic scenarios. They also noted that robots lacked the autonomy to take part to society on their own. 
 Progress in AI increased interest in the topic. Proponents of AI welfare and rights often argue that AI sentience, if it emerges, would be particularly easy to deny. They warn that this may be a   analogous to   or  , which could lead to   if sentient AI is created and carelessly exploited. 
 A   is a hypothetical agent that would possess intelligence far surpassing that of the brightest and most gifted human mind. 
 If research into   produced sufficiently intelligent software, it might be able to  . The improved software would be even better at improving itself, leading to what   called an " " and   called a " ". 
 However, technologies cannot improve exponentially indefinitely, and typically follow an  , slowing when they reach the physical limits of what the technology can do. 
 Robot designer  , cyberneticist  , and inventor   have predicted that humans and machines will merge in the future into   that are more capable and powerful than either. This idea, called transhumanism, has roots in   and  . 
  argues that "artificial intelligence is the next stage in evolution", an idea first proposed by  's " " as far back as 1863, and expanded upon by   in his book of the same name in 1998. 
 Thought-capable artificial beings have appeared as storytelling devices since antiquity,  and have been a persistent theme in  . 
 A common   in these works began with  's  , where a human creation becomes a threat to its masters. This includes such works as   and     (both 1968), with  , the murderous computer in charge of the   spaceship, as well as   (1984) and   (1999). In contrast, the rare loyal robots such as Gort from   (1951) and Bishop from   (1986) are less prominent in popular culture. 
  introduced the   in many books and stories, most notably the "Multivac" series about a super-intelligent computer of the same name. Asimov's laws are often brought up during lay discussions of machine ethics;  while almost all artificial intelligence researchers are familiar with Asimov's laws through popular culture, they generally consider the laws useless for many reasons, one of which is their ambiguity. 
 Several works use AI to force us to confront the fundamental question of what makes us human, showing us artificial beings that have  , and thus to suffer. This appears in  's  , the films   and  , as well as the novel  , by  . Dick considers the idea that our understanding of human subjectivity is altered by technology created with artificial intelligence. 
 The two most widely used textbooks in 2023. (See the  ).
 These were the four of the most widely used AI textbooks in 2008:
 Later editions.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:File_upload_wizard

Content: Thank you for offering to contribute an image or other media file for use on Wikipedia. This wizard will guide you through a questionnaire prompting you for the appropriate copyright and sourcing information for each file. Please ensure you understand   and the   before proceeding.
 
 Uploads to  
 
 
 Uploads locally to Wikipedia; must comply with the   criteria
 
 
 Sorry, in order to use this uploading script, JavaScript must be enabled. You can still use the plain   page to upload files to the English Wikipedia without JavaScript.
 
 Sorry, in order to use this uploading script and to upload files, you need to be logged in with your named account. Please   and then try again.
 
 Sorry, in order to upload files on the English Wikipedia, you need to have a  . Normally, your account will become confirmed automatically once you have made 10 edits and four days have passed since you created it.     
 You may already be able to upload files on the  , but you can't do it on the English Wikipedia just yet. If the file you want to upload has a free license, please go to Commons and upload it there.
  if you don't want to wait until you are autoconfirmed, you may ask somebody else to upload a file for you at  . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sorry, a few special characters and character combinations cannot be used in the filename for technical reasons. This goes especially for   and  . Your filename has been modified to avoid these. Please check if it is okay now.
 The filename you chose seems to be very short, or overly generic. Please don't use:
 
 If you upload your file with this name, you will be masking the existing file and make it inaccessible. Your new file will be displayed everywhere the existing file was previously used.
 This should not be done, except in very rare exceptional cases.
 Please don't upload your file under this name, unless you seriously know what you are doing. Choose a different name for your new file instead.
 
 If you upload your file with this name, you will be overwriting the existing file. Your new file will be displayed everywhere the existing file was previously used. Please don't do this, unless you have a good reason to:
 It is very important that you read through the following options and questions, and provide all required information truthfully and carefully. 
 Wikipedia loves free files. However, we would love it even more if you uploaded them on our sister project, the  .
Files uploaded on Commons can be used immediately here on Wikipedia as well as on all its sister projects. Uploading files on Commons works just the same as here. Your Wikipedia account will automatically work on Commons too. 
   
 However, if you prefer to do it here instead, you may go ahead with this form. You can also first use this form to collect the information about your file and then send it to Commons from here.
 Please note that by "entirely self-made" we really mean just that. 
  use this section for any of the following:
 Editors who falsely declare such items as their "own work"  .
 Use this   if there is an   in the source. 
 The website must explicitly say that the image is released under a license that allows free re-use for any purpose, e.g. the Creative Commons Attribution license. You must be able to point exactly to where it says this.
 If the source website doesn't say so explicitly, please  .
  means that nobody owns any copyrights on this work. It does   mean simply that it is freely viewable somewhere on the web or that it has been widely used by others. 
 This is   for images you simply found somewhere on the web. Most images on the web are under copyright and belong to somebody, even if you believe the owner won't care about that copyright. If it is in the public domain, you must be able to point to an actual law that makes it so. If you can't point to such a law but merely found this image somewhere, then  
  Please remember that you will need to demonstrate that:
 This file will be used in the following article:
 
    – article okay.
   
 The article   could not be found.
 Please check the spelling, and make sure you enter the name of an existing article in which you will include this file.
 If this is an article you are only planning to write, please write it first and upload the file afterwards.
   
 The page   is not in the main article namespace. Non-free files can only be used in mainspace article pages, not on a user page, talk page, template, etc.
 Please upload this file only if it is going to be used in an actual article.
 If this page is an article draft in your user space, we're sorry, but we must ask you to wait until the page is ready and has been moved into mainspace, and only upload the file after that.
   
 The page   is not a real article, but a disambiguation page pointing to a number of other pages.
 Please check and enter the exact title of the actual target article you meant.
 If neither of these two statements applies, then please  
 This section is   for images used merely to illustrate an article about a person or thing, showing what that person or thing look like.
 In view of this, please explain how the use of this file will be minimal.
 Well, we're very sorry, but if you're not sure about this file's copyright status, or if it doesn't fit into any of the groups above, then:
 
 Really, please don't. Even if you think it would make for a great addition to an article. We really take these copyright rules very seriously on Wikipedia. Note that media is   to be fully-copyrighted unless shown otherwise; the burden is on the uploader.
 In particular, please don't upload:
 If you are in any doubt, please ask some experienced editors for advice before uploading. People will be happy to assist you at  . Thank you.
 This is the data that will be submitted to upload:
 
 
 
 Your file is being uploaded. 
 This might take a minute or two, depending on the size of the file and the speed of your internet connection.
 Once uploading is completed, you will find your new file at this link:
 
 Your file has been uploaded successfully and can now be found here:
 
 Please follow the link and check that the image description page has all the information you meant to include.
 If you want to change the description, just go to the image page, click the "edit" tab at the top of the page and edit just as you would edit any other page. Do not go through this upload form again, unless you want to replace the actual file with a new version.
 To insert this file into an article, you may want to use code similar to the following:
 If you wish to make a link to the file in text, without actually showing the image, for instance when discussing the image on a talk page, you can use the following (mark the ":" after the initial brackets!):
 See   for more detailed help on how to insert and position images in pages.
 Please leave your feedback, comments, bug reports or suggestions on the  .
 


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate, or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will. However,   The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized, or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works  .
 Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content. However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever. Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops, or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers, or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify, or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, or similar rights that are mentioned, used, or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated, Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by, nor affiliated with, any of the holders of any such rights, and as such, Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or recently-deceased. The use of images of living or recently-deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.  
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution. Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain, or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management), please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Search

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regional_Internet_registry

Content: A   ( ) is an organization that manages the allocation and registration of   resources within a region of the world. Internet number resources include   and   numbers. 
 The regional Internet registry system evolved, eventually dividing the responsibility for management to a registry for each of five regions of the world. The regional Internet registries are informally liaised through the unincorporated   (NRO), which is a coordinating body to act on matters of global importance. 
 As of 2005, there are currently five regional registries:
  are components of the Internet Number Registry System, which is described in   RFC 7020,  where IETF stands for the Internet Engineering Task Force. The   (IANA) delegates Internet resources to the RIRs who, in turn, follow their regional policies to delegate resources to their customers, which include   and end-user organizations.  Collectively, the RIRs participate in the   (NRO),  formed as a body to represent their collective interests, undertake joint activities, and coordinate their activities globally. The NRO has entered into an agreement with   for the establishment of the   (ASO),  which undertakes coordination of global IP addressing policies within the ICANN framework.
 The   ( ) is an unincorporated organization uniting the five RIRs.  It came into existence on October 24, 2003, when the four existing RIRs entered into a   (MoU) in order to undertake joint activities, including joint technical projects and policy coordination. The youngest RIR,  , joined in April 2005.
 The NRO's main objectives are to:
 A   ( ) is an organization that has been allocated a block of   by a RIR, and that assigns most parts of this block to its own customers.  Most LIRs are  , enterprises, or academic institutions. Membership in a regional Internet registry is required to become a LIR.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RecentChanges

Content: This is a list of recent changes to Wikipedia.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Artificial+intelligence

Content: edits articles recent contributors

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:File_upload_wizard

Content: Thank you for offering to contribute an image or other media file for use on Wikipedia. This wizard will guide you through a questionnaire prompting you for the appropriate copyright and sourcing information for each file. Please ensure you understand   and the   before proceeding.
 
 Uploads to  
 
 
 Uploads locally to Wikipedia; must comply with the   criteria
 
 
 Sorry, in order to use this uploading script, JavaScript must be enabled. You can still use the plain   page to upload files to the English Wikipedia without JavaScript.
 
 Sorry, in order to use this uploading script and to upload files, you need to be logged in with your named account. Please   and then try again.
 
 Sorry, in order to upload files on the English Wikipedia, you need to have a  . Normally, your account will become confirmed automatically once you have made 10 edits and four days have passed since you created it.     
 You may already be able to upload files on the  , but you can't do it on the English Wikipedia just yet. If the file you want to upload has a free license, please go to Commons and upload it there.
  if you don't want to wait until you are autoconfirmed, you may ask somebody else to upload a file for you at  . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sorry, a few special characters and character combinations cannot be used in the filename for technical reasons. This goes especially for   and  . Your filename has been modified to avoid these. Please check if it is okay now.
 The filename you chose seems to be very short, or overly generic. Please don't use:
 
 If you upload your file with this name, you will be masking the existing file and make it inaccessible. Your new file will be displayed everywhere the existing file was previously used.
 This should not be done, except in very rare exceptional cases.
 Please don't upload your file under this name, unless you seriously know what you are doing. Choose a different name for your new file instead.
 
 If you upload your file with this name, you will be overwriting the existing file. Your new file will be displayed everywhere the existing file was previously used. Please don't do this, unless you have a good reason to:
 It is very important that you read through the following options and questions, and provide all required information truthfully and carefully. 
 Wikipedia loves free files. However, we would love it even more if you uploaded them on our sister project, the  .
Files uploaded on Commons can be used immediately here on Wikipedia as well as on all its sister projects. Uploading files on Commons works just the same as here. Your Wikipedia account will automatically work on Commons too. 
   
 However, if you prefer to do it here instead, you may go ahead with this form. You can also first use this form to collect the information about your file and then send it to Commons from here.
 Please note that by "entirely self-made" we really mean just that. 
  use this section for any of the following:
 Editors who falsely declare such items as their "own work"  .
 Use this   if there is an   in the source. 
 The website must explicitly say that the image is released under a license that allows free re-use for any purpose, e.g. the Creative Commons Attribution license. You must be able to point exactly to where it says this.
 If the source website doesn't say so explicitly, please  .
  means that nobody owns any copyrights on this work. It does   mean simply that it is freely viewable somewhere on the web or that it has been widely used by others. 
 This is   for images you simply found somewhere on the web. Most images on the web are under copyright and belong to somebody, even if you believe the owner won't care about that copyright. If it is in the public domain, you must be able to point to an actual law that makes it so. If you can't point to such a law but merely found this image somewhere, then  
  Please remember that you will need to demonstrate that:
 This file will be used in the following article:
 
    – article okay.
   
 The article   could not be found.
 Please check the spelling, and make sure you enter the name of an existing article in which you will include this file.
 If this is an article you are only planning to write, please write it first and upload the file afterwards.
   
 The page   is not in the main article namespace. Non-free files can only be used in mainspace article pages, not on a user page, talk page, template, etc.
 Please upload this file only if it is going to be used in an actual article.
 If this page is an article draft in your user space, we're sorry, but we must ask you to wait until the page is ready and has been moved into mainspace, and only upload the file after that.
   
 The page   is not a real article, but a disambiguation page pointing to a number of other pages.
 Please check and enter the exact title of the actual target article you meant.
 If neither of these two statements applies, then please  
 This section is   for images used merely to illustrate an article about a person or thing, showing what that person or thing look like.
 In view of this, please explain how the use of this file will be minimal.
 Well, we're very sorry, but if you're not sure about this file's copyright status, or if it doesn't fit into any of the groups above, then:
 
 Really, please don't. Even if you think it would make for a great addition to an article. We really take these copyright rules very seriously on Wikipedia. Note that media is   to be fully-copyrighted unless shown otherwise; the burden is on the uploader.
 In particular, please don't upload:
 If you are in any doubt, please ask some experienced editors for advice before uploading. People will be happy to assist you at  . Thank you.
 This is the data that will be submitted to upload:
 
 
 
 Your file is being uploaded. 
 This might take a minute or two, depending on the size of the file and the speed of your internet connection.
 Once uploading is completed, you will find your new file at this link:
 
 Your file has been uploaded successfully and can now be found here:
 
 Please follow the link and check that the image description page has all the information you meant to include.
 If you want to change the description, just go to the image page, click the "edit" tab at the top of the page and edit just as you would edit any other page. Do not go through this upload form again, unless you want to replace the actual file with a new version.
 To insert this file into an article, you may want to use code similar to the following:
 If you wish to make a link to the file in text, without actually showing the image, for instance when discussing the image on a talk page, you can use the following (mark the ":" after the initial brackets!):
 See   for more detailed help on how to insert and position images in pages.
 Please leave your feedback, comments, bug reports or suggestions on the  .
 


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate, or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will. However,   The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized, or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works  .
 Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content. However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever. Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops, or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers, or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify, or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, or similar rights that are mentioned, used, or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated, Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by, nor affiliated with, any of the holders of any such rights, and as such, Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or recently-deceased. The use of images of living or recently-deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.  
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution. Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain, or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management), please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RecentChanges

Content: This is a list of recent changes to Wikipedia.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate, or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will. However,   The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized, or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works  .
 Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content. However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever. Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops, or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers, or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify, or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, or similar rights that are mentioned, used, or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated, Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by, nor affiliated with, any of the holders of any such rights, and as such, Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or recently-deceased. The use of images of living or recently-deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.  
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution. Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain, or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management), please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Search

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:File_upload_wizard

Content: Thank you for offering to contribute an image or other media file for use on Wikipedia. This wizard will guide you through a questionnaire prompting you for the appropriate copyright and sourcing information for each file. Please ensure you understand   and the   before proceeding.
 
 Uploads to  
 
 
 Uploads locally to Wikipedia; must comply with the   criteria
 
 
 Sorry, in order to use this uploading script, JavaScript must be enabled. You can still use the plain   page to upload files to the English Wikipedia without JavaScript.
 
 Sorry, in order to use this uploading script and to upload files, you need to be logged in with your named account. Please   and then try again.
 
 Sorry, in order to upload files on the English Wikipedia, you need to have a  . Normally, your account will become confirmed automatically once you have made 10 edits and four days have passed since you created it.     
 You may already be able to upload files on the  , but you can't do it on the English Wikipedia just yet. If the file you want to upload has a free license, please go to Commons and upload it there.
  if you don't want to wait until you are autoconfirmed, you may ask somebody else to upload a file for you at  . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sorry, a few special characters and character combinations cannot be used in the filename for technical reasons. This goes especially for   and  . Your filename has been modified to avoid these. Please check if it is okay now.
 The filename you chose seems to be very short, or overly generic. Please don't use:
 
 If you upload your file with this name, you will be masking the existing file and make it inaccessible. Your new file will be displayed everywhere the existing file was previously used.
 This should not be done, except in very rare exceptional cases.
 Please don't upload your file under this name, unless you seriously know what you are doing. Choose a different name for your new file instead.
 
 If you upload your file with this name, you will be overwriting the existing file. Your new file will be displayed everywhere the existing file was previously used. Please don't do this, unless you have a good reason to:
 It is very important that you read through the following options and questions, and provide all required information truthfully and carefully. 
 Wikipedia loves free files. However, we would love it even more if you uploaded them on our sister project, the  .
Files uploaded on Commons can be used immediately here on Wikipedia as well as on all its sister projects. Uploading files on Commons works just the same as here. Your Wikipedia account will automatically work on Commons too. 
   
 However, if you prefer to do it here instead, you may go ahead with this form. You can also first use this form to collect the information about your file and then send it to Commons from here.
 Please note that by "entirely self-made" we really mean just that. 
  use this section for any of the following:
 Editors who falsely declare such items as their "own work"  .
 Use this   if there is an   in the source. 
 The website must explicitly say that the image is released under a license that allows free re-use for any purpose, e.g. the Creative Commons Attribution license. You must be able to point exactly to where it says this.
 If the source website doesn't say so explicitly, please  .
  means that nobody owns any copyrights on this work. It does   mean simply that it is freely viewable somewhere on the web or that it has been widely used by others. 
 This is   for images you simply found somewhere on the web. Most images on the web are under copyright and belong to somebody, even if you believe the owner won't care about that copyright. If it is in the public domain, you must be able to point to an actual law that makes it so. If you can't point to such a law but merely found this image somewhere, then  
  Please remember that you will need to demonstrate that:
 This file will be used in the following article:
 
    – article okay.
   
 The article   could not be found.
 Please check the spelling, and make sure you enter the name of an existing article in which you will include this file.
 If this is an article you are only planning to write, please write it first and upload the file afterwards.
   
 The page   is not in the main article namespace. Non-free files can only be used in mainspace article pages, not on a user page, talk page, template, etc.
 Please upload this file only if it is going to be used in an actual article.
 If this page is an article draft in your user space, we're sorry, but we must ask you to wait until the page is ready and has been moved into mainspace, and only upload the file after that.
   
 The page   is not a real article, but a disambiguation page pointing to a number of other pages.
 Please check and enter the exact title of the actual target article you meant.
 If neither of these two statements applies, then please  
 This section is   for images used merely to illustrate an article about a person or thing, showing what that person or thing look like.
 In view of this, please explain how the use of this file will be minimal.
 Well, we're very sorry, but if you're not sure about this file's copyright status, or if it doesn't fit into any of the groups above, then:
 
 Really, please don't. Even if you think it would make for a great addition to an article. We really take these copyright rules very seriously on Wikipedia. Note that media is   to be fully-copyrighted unless shown otherwise; the burden is on the uploader.
 In particular, please don't upload:
 If you are in any doubt, please ask some experienced editors for advice before uploading. People will be happy to assist you at  . Thank you.
 This is the data that will be submitted to upload:
 
 
 
 Your file is being uploaded. 
 This might take a minute or two, depending on the size of the file and the speed of your internet connection.
 Once uploading is completed, you will find your new file at this link:
 
 Your file has been uploaded successfully and can now be found here:
 
 Please follow the link and check that the image description page has all the information you meant to include.
 If you want to change the description, just go to the image page, click the "edit" tab at the top of the page and edit just as you would edit any other page. Do not go through this upload form again, unless you want to replace the actual file with a new version.
 To insert this file into an article, you may want to use code similar to the following:
 If you wish to make a link to the file in text, without actually showing the image, for instance when discussing the image on a talk page, you can use the following (mark the ":" after the initial brackets!):
 See   for more detailed help on how to insert and position images in pages.
 Please leave your feedback, comments, bug reports or suggestions on the  .
 


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regional_Internet_registry

Content: A   ( ) is an organization that manages the allocation and registration of   resources within a region of the world. Internet number resources include   and   numbers. 
 The regional Internet registry system evolved, eventually dividing the responsibility for management to a registry for each of five regions of the world. The regional Internet registries are informally liaised through the unincorporated   (NRO), which is a coordinating body to act on matters of global importance. 
 As of 2005, there are currently five regional registries:
  are components of the Internet Number Registry System, which is described in   RFC 7020,  where IETF stands for the Internet Engineering Task Force. The   (IANA) delegates Internet resources to the RIRs who, in turn, follow their regional policies to delegate resources to their customers, which include   and end-user organizations.  Collectively, the RIRs participate in the   (NRO),  formed as a body to represent their collective interests, undertake joint activities, and coordinate their activities globally. The NRO has entered into an agreement with   for the establishment of the   (ASO),  which undertakes coordination of global IP addressing policies within the ICANN framework.
 The   ( ) is an unincorporated organization uniting the five RIRs.  It came into existence on October 24, 2003, when the four existing RIRs entered into a   (MoU) in order to undertake joint activities, including joint technical projects and policy coordination. The youngest RIR,  , joined in April 2005.
 The NRO's main objectives are to:
 A   ( ) is an organization that has been allocated a block of   by a RIR, and that assigns most parts of this block to its own customers.  Most LIRs are  , enterprises, or academic institutions. Membership in a regional Internet registry is required to become a LIR.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RecentChanges

Content: This is a list of recent changes to Wikipedia.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?returnto=Artificial+intelligence&title=Special:UserLogin&centralAuthAutologinTried=1&centralAuthError=Not+centrally+logged+in

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=User:The_X_Actor&curid=74926787&diff=1220313123&oldid=1220139023

Content: 5:25 PM: Super Kitties - Toy-Tastrophe/Night Light
5:50 PM: Bluey - Faceytalk; Ragdoll; Fairytale
6:15 PM: Bluey - Pirates; Chickenrat; Neighbours
6:40 PM: Firebuds - Skitty Kitty / Heat Wave
7:05 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Daisy and the Missing Dream / Daisy's Big Picture
7:30 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Ready to Play, Ruthie! / Goofy Dogs
8:00 PM: Spidey And His Amazing Friends - Freeze! It's Team Spidey; A Sticky Situation
8:30 PM: Bluey - Favourite Thing; Daddy Dropoff; Sleepytime
9:00 PM: SuperKitties - Have a Ball/Zsa-Zsa Zoom
9:30 PM: Bluey - Dunny; Duck Cake; Handstand
9:55 PM: Bluey - Easter; Barky Boats; Escape
10:20 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Finding Treasure!; Witchy Worries
10:45 PM: Pupstruction - Robo Cat; Underwater Pups || Bottom Two 
 5:25 PM: SuperKitties - Silent Surprise / Fufu Snafu
5:50 PM: Bluey - Pirates; Chickenrat; Neighbours
6:15 PM: Bluey - Pizza Girls; Tina; Whale Watching
6:40 PM: Firebuds - The Birthday Blaze / Everybody Loves Axl
7:05 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - The Trail Less Traveled/Vardavar
7:30 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Farfus' Family! / the Adventure Parade
8:00 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - A Syrupy Solution / Little Ant, Big Problem
8:30 PM: Bluey - The Doctor; The Claw; Markets
9:00 PM: SuperKitties - Voice With No Choice; Brother Battle
9:30 PM: Bluey - The Weekend
9:55 PM: Bluey - Muffin Cone; Circus; Road Trip
10:20 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - HALT, Tiger!; You Gotta Be Kitten Me!
10:45 PM: Pupstruction - Itty Bitty Barn Build / a Colorful Job || Safe
 5:25 PM: SuperKitties - Great Yarn Caper / Get the Boot
5:50 PM: Bluey - Musical Statues / Stories / Puppets
6:15 PM: Bluey - Yoga Ball
6:40 PM: Firebuds - Puppy Pursuit / the Ice Cream Truck Bandits
7:05 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Mickey and the Cornstalk/King Mickey
7:30 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Chickie Boo-Boo, Where Are You?; Playground Heroes!
8:00 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Car-Tastrophe; Sandman and the Tortoise
8:30 PM: Bluey - Bob Bilby; Spygame; Takeaway
9:00 PM: SuperKitties - Cat Tree Caper / Showstopper
9:30 PM: Bluey - Bedroom; Perfect; Obstacle Course
9:55 PM: Bluey - Bus; Mum School; Piggyback
10:20 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - No Thrills, Please!; Space Doggies
10:45 PM: Pupstruction - Bailey And The Doggy Doctor; Dog For A Day || Bottom Two 
 5:25 PM: SuperKitties - Hole Lot of Trouble; Roboctopus
5:50 PM: Bluey - Favourite Thing; Daddy Dropoff; Sleepytime
6:15 PM: Bluey - Ice Cream; Bad Mood; Double Babysitter
6:40 PM: Firebuds - Bayani Cookout; Rest of the Best
7:05 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Dino Safari
7:30 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Dino See, Dino Do; Pete the Mighty Baby!
8:00 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Super Scooter; The Lost Web Shooter
8:30 PM: Bluey - Dunny; Duck Cake; Handstand
9:00 PM: SuperKitties - Fruit Loot; Buddy Wanna-Be
9:30 PM: Bluey - Trains; Queens; Flat Pack
9:55 PM: Bluey - Horsey Ride; Hotel; Bike
10:20 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - There's Something About Teddy! / Finders Keepers?
10:45 PM: Pupstruction - A Bright Idea / the Friendliest Frog || 
 5:25 PM: SuperKitties - Missing Hot Dog / Mysterious Magician
5:50 PM: Bluey - Turtle Boy / Onesies / Tradies
6:15 PM: Bluey - Fairies; Work; Bumpy and the Wise Old Wolfhound
6:40 PM: Firebuds - Sugar Crash / the Cut N' Chrome Caper
7:05 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Majestica's New Troubadour!; Minnie's Pod Mod
7:30 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Daisy and the Missing Dream / Daisy's Big Picture
8:00 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Tree Trouble; Stuck In Space
8:30 PM: Bluey - Promises; Magic; Mini Bluey
9:00 PM: SuperKitties - Lab Rat Lift-Off/Rockin' Rockhound
9:30 PM: Bluey - Squash; Charades; Bingo
9:55 PM: Bluey - Pizza Girls; Tina; Whale Watching
10:20 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - For Pete's Sake! / Minnie Golf
10:45 PM: Pupstruction - The Mayor Mover; Bobby's Balloon Blunder ||
 5:20 PM: Super Kitties - Toy-Tastrophe/Night Light
5:45 PM: SuperKitties - Voice With No Choice; Brother Battle
6:10 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Daisy and the Missing Dream / Daisy's Big Picture
6:35 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Chickie Boo-Boo, Where Are You?; Playground Heroes!
7:00 PM: Bluey - Library; Swim School; Bin Night
7:25 PM: Bluey - Rug Island; Hairdressers; Sticky Gecko
7:50 PM: PJ Masks: Power Heroes - Heroes of Space
8:40 PM: Bluey - Mr. Monkeyjocks / Typewriter / Burger Shop
9:05 PM: Bluey - Family Meeting; Barky Boats; Smoochy Kiss
9:30 PM: Pupstruction - Itty Bitty Barn Build / a Colorful Job
9:55 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Daisy and the Missing Dream / Daisy's Big Picture
10:20 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - The Trail Less Traveled/Vardavar
10:45 PM: Firebuds - Science Fair Snafu; The Scavenger Hunt || 
 5:20 PM: Spidey And His Amazing Friends - Liberty on the Loose; Green Goblin's Dino Disaster
5:45 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Car-Tastrophe; Sandman and the Tortoise
6:10 PM: SuperKitties - Amara's Tiara; Furball Blooper
6:35 PM: SuperKitties - Cat Tree Caper / Showstopper
7:00 PM: Bluey - Trampoline
7:25 PM: Bluey - Kids; Butterflies; The Creek
7:50 PM: PJ Masks: Power Heroes - Let it Howl; Wolfy Treasure Hunt
8:15 PM: PJ Masks: Power Heroes - It's a Cat Thing / the Dance of Two Cats
8:40 PM: Bluey - Housework / Sheepdog / Explorers
9:05 PM: Bluey - Shops; The Pool; Blue Mountains
9:30 PM: Pupstruction - Luna's Bad Hair Day; Happy Maya's Day
9:55 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - The Kooky Paleontologist!; That's My Jam!
10:20 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Chickie Boo-Boo, Where Are You?; Playground Heroes!
10:45 PM: Firebuds - Skitty Kitty / Heat Wave ||
 5:25 PM: SuperKitties - Great Yarn Caper / Get the Boot
5:50 PM: Bluey - The Show; Ticklecrabs; Escape
6:15 PM: Bluey - Dunny; Duck Cake; Handstand
6:40 PM: Firebuds - Sleepover Stakeout / Rescue Club
7:05 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Mickey the Brave!
7:30 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Minnie's Big Delivery! / The Wandrin' Warbler
8:00 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Itsy-Bitsy Spiders / Gobby's Rotten Pumpkin Hunt
8:30 PM: Bluey - Fairies; Work; Bumpy and the Wise Old Wolfhound
9:00 PM: SuperKitties - Sparks vs. Sparks / Poochy Playdate
9:30 PM: Bluey - Trains; Queens; Flat Pack
9:55 PM: Bluey - Squash; Charades; Bingo
10:20 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Ducks Inn Trouble! / Polka Dots and Don'ts
10:45 PM: Pupstruction - Home Stinky Home; Dump Truck Dilemma || 
 5:25 PM: SuperKitties - Lost Spark; Bitsy Bellyache
5:50 PM: Bluey - Mum and Dads; Mount Mumandad; Asparagus
6:15 PM: Bluey - Backpackers; The Adventure; Copycat
6:40 PM: Firebuds - Skitty Kitty / Heat Wave
7:05 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Heroes Clean up! / Dino Duck
7:30 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Curse of the Crusty Clam!; Dream a Little Dream
8:00 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Ock Tower; Outsmarted by Art
8:30 PM: Bluey - Teasing; Shaun; Daddy Robot
9:00 PM: SuperKitties - Missing Hot Dog / Mysterious Magician
9:30 PM: Bluey - Library; Swim School; Bin Night
9:55 PM: Bluey - See Saw; Movies; Grandad
10:20 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Daisy and the Missing Dream / Daisy's Big Picture
10:45 PM: Pupstruction - Adventures in Bulldozing; Safe And Hound || 
 5:25 PM: SuperKitties - Super-Fan / Bubble Bother
5:50 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - The Mighty Goof!; Playtime in Crayon World
6:15 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Troll Trouble/The Sunny Gulch Games
6:45 PM: Bluey - Outdoor Adventures Special
7:30 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - Gobblefrog; The Perfect Day
7:45 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - Morphle The Bus; Rainbow Chasers
8:00 PM: Bluey - Family Meeting; Barky Boats; Smoochy Kiss
8:25 PM: Bluey - Faceytalk; Ragdoll; Fairytale
8:45 PM: Bluey - Yoga Ball
9:15 PM: SuperKitties - Hole Lot of Trouble; Roboctopus
9:40 PM: Bluey - Turtle Boy / Onesies / Tradies
10:05 PM: Bluey - Phones / Pavlova / Rain
10:30 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - Gobblefrog; The Perfect Day
10:45 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - Morphle The Bus; Rainbow Chasers
11:05 PM: Pupstruction - The Wishbone Comet; The Never-Ending Treehouse ||
 5:25 PM: SuperKitties - Amara's Tiara; Furball Blooper
5:50 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - No Bear Hugs; Where's Funny?
6:15 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Daisy and the Missing Dream / Daisy's Big Picture
6:40 PM: Bluey - The Show; Ticklecrabs; Escape
7:05 PM: Bluey - Chest / Omelette / Pass the Parcel
7:30 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - The Fun Zone; Morphle Ball
7:45 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Ock's Obey Ray; Lemur At Large
8:15 PM: Bluey - The Pool
8:25 PM: Bluey - Dunny; Duck Cake; Handstand
8:45 PM: Bluey - Helicopter; Octopus; Baby Race
9:15 PM: SuperKitties - Cheesenado / Talented Troublemaker
9:45 PM: Bluey - Easter; Barky Boats; Escape
10:10 PM: Bluey - The Weekend
10:30 PM: Bluey - The Beach
10:40 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Mickey's Sky-High Birthday!; The What About Me Birthday
11:05 PM: Pupstruction - Amusement Park-ing; The Dino-Dog Dig || 
 5:25 PM: SuperKitties - Lab Rat Lift-Off/Rockin' Rockhound
5:50 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - King Ludwig's Day Off; No Horsing Around
6:15 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Crystal Clearwater vs. the Annoying Algae; Trolland's Big Adventure!
6:40 PM: Firebuds - Wayne's Trains and Automobiles; Jazzy Buds
7:05 PM: Bluey - Pirates; Chickenrat; Neighbours
7:30 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - The Cucumber Mystery; Chroma's Magic Match
7:45 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - An Egg-Cellent Adventure / the Hangout Headache
8:15 PM: Bluey - Bedroom
8:25 PM: Bluey - Horsey Ride; Hotel; Bike
8:45 PM: Bluey - Bus; Mum School; Piggyback
9:15 PM: Super Kitties - Toy-Tastrophe/Night Light
9:45 PM: Bluey - Pizza Girls; Tina; Whale Watching
10:15 PM: Mickey's Great Clubhouse Hunt
11:05 PM: Pupstruction - A Bright Idea; The Friendliest Frog ||
 5:35 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - How to Train Your Doggy; Dome Alone
6:05 PM: SuperKitties - Sparks vs. Sparks / Poochy Playdate
6:30 PM: SuperKitties - Bird Bop / Pickle Problem
7:00 PM: Bluey - Bedroom; Perfect; Obstacle Course
7:25 PM: Bluey - Housework / Sheepdog / Explorers
7:50 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - Gobblefrog; The Perfect Day
8:05 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - The Cucumber Mystery; Chroma's Magic Match
8:20 PM: PJ Masks: Power Heroes - The Sun Factory; Catboy Does It All
8:40 PM: Bluey - Army; Fancy Restaurant; Stumpfest
9:05 PM: Bluey - Keepy Uppy; Magic Xylophone; Shadowlands
9:30 PM: Pupstruction - Pizza-Struction / Baby Builders
9:55 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Tooth or Consequences! / the Heroic Games
10:20 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Ready to Play, Ruthie! / Goofy Dogs
10:45 PM: Firebuds - Mayhem at the Museum; Wrong Way Rescue || 
 5:20 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Itsy-Bitsy Spiders / Gobby's Rotten Pumpkin Hunt
5:45 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Catnap Caper / Bunny Bonanza
6:10 PM: SuperKitties - Fruit Loot; Buddy Wanna-Be
6:35 PM: SuperKitties - Hole Lot of Trouble; Roboctopus
7:00 PM: Bluey - Turtle Boy / Onesies / Tradies
7:25 PM: Bluey - Chest / Omelette / Pass the Parcel
7:50 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - Morphle The Bus; Rainbow Chasers
8:05 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - The Fun Zone; Morphle Ball
8:20 PM: PJ Masks: Power Heroes - Heroes Everywhere
9:05 PM: Bluey - Family Meeting; Barky Boats; Smoochy Kiss
9:30 PM: Pupstruction - Adventures in Bulldozing; Safe And Hound
9:55 PM: Mickey's Great Clubhouse Hunt
10:45 PM: Firebuds - Wayne's Trains and Automobiles; Jazzy Buds ||
 5:25 PM: Superkitties - Missing Mr. Greenie/Piano Problem
5:50 PM: Mickey's Great Clubhouse Hunt
6:40 PM: Bluey - Easter; Barky Boats; Escape
7:05 PM: Bluey - Helicopter; Octopus; Baby Race
7:30 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - Two Of A Kind; The Red Balloon
7:45 PM: Spidey And His Amazing Friends - Good Guy Gobby/Spider Monkey
8:15 PM: Bluey - Cubby
8:25 PM: Bluey - Mr. Monkeyjocks / Typewriter / Burger Shop
8:45 PM: Bluey - The Weekend
9:15 PM: SuperKitties - Have a Ball/Zsa-Zsa Zoom
9:45 PM: Bluey - Kids; Butterflies; The Creek
10:10 PM: Bluey - The Sleepover; Hide and Seek; Camping
10:30 PM: Bluey - Cubby
10:40 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Seas the Day!; Play Nice!
11:05 PM: Pupstruction - Home Stinky Home; Dump Truck Dilemma || 
 5:25 PM: SuperKitties - Amara's Tiara; Furball Blooper
5:50 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Crystal Clear Waters; The Big Funhouse Sleepover
6:15 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Mickey and the Cornstalk/King Mickey
6:40 PM: Bluey - Army; Fancy Restaurant; Stumpfest
7:05 PM: Bluey - Pirates; Chickenrat; Neighbours
7:30 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - The Cucumber Mystery; Chroma's Magic Match
7:45 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Itsy-Bitsy Spiders / Gobby's Rotten Pumpkin Hunt
8:15 PM: Bluey - Exercise
8:25 PM: Bluey - Keepy Uppy; Magic Xylophone; Shadowlands
8:45 PM: Bluey - Horsey Ride; Hotel; Bike
9:15 PM: SuperKitties - Voice With No Choice; Brother Battle
9:45 PM: Bluey - Musical Statues / Stories / Puppets
10:10 PM: Bluey - Bob Bilby; Spygame; Takeaway
10:30 PM: Bluey - Exercise
10:40 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Cora the Pirate Crab; The Curious Case of the Kooky Scientist
11:05 PM: Pupstruction - Fast And Furriest; Luna Digs Deep || 
 5:25 PM: SuperKitties - Lost Spark; Bitsy Bellyache
5:50 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Finding Treasure!; Witchy Worries
6:15 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Maybe I'm a Maze / Land of the Lost... Socks
6:40 PM: Bluey - Backpackers; The Adventure; Copycat
7:05 PM: Bluey - Yoga Ball
7:30 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - Morphle The Bus; Rainbow Chasers
7:45 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Catnap Caper / Bunny Bonanza
8:15 PM: Bluey - Relax
8:25 PM: Bluey - Library; Swim School; Bin Night
8:45 PM: Bluey - Hammerbarn; Feather Wand; Dance Mode
9:15 PM: SuperKitties - Bundle of Bitsies / Frantic Flyer
9:45 PM: Bluey - The Show; Ticklecrabs; Escape
10:10 PM: Bluey - Shops; The Pool; Blue Mountains
10:30 PM: Bluey - Relax
10:40 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Dino Safari
11:05 PM: Pupstruction - Professor Frazzle / a Crabby Neighbor ||
 5:25 PM: SuperKitties - Lab Rat Lift-Off/Rockin' Rockhound
5:50 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Majestica's New Troubadour!; Minnie's Pod Mod
6:15 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - There's Something About Teddy! / Finders Keepers?
6:40 PM: Bluey - Family Meeting; Barky Boats; Smoochy Kiss
7:05 PM: Bluey - The Weekend
7:30 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - Gobblefrog; The Perfect Day
7:45 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Tiny Car Caper; Toothy Fairy Tricks
8:15 PM: Bluey - Stickbird
8:25 PM: Bluey - Ice Cream; Bad Mood; Double Babysitter
8:45 PM: Bluey - Kids; Butterflies; The Creek
9:15 PM: SuperKitties - Cat Tree Caper / Showstopper
9:45 PM: Bluey - The Quiet Game; Postman; Cafe
10:10 PM: Bluey - The Sleepover; Hide and Seek; Camping
10:30 PM: Bluey - Stickbird
10:40 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Mayor Franken-Pete's Very Bad Day; The Lost Party Rings!
11:05 PM: Pupstruction - Pizza-Struction / Baby Builders || 
 5:25 PM: SuperKitties - Bird Bop / Pickle Problem
5:50 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Goofy Foot Grommet; The Enchanted Rescue
6:15 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Birds of a Feather; Salty vs. Pepper
6:40 PM: Firebuds - Balancing Act / Monster Truck Piston
7:05 PM: Bluey - Pirates; Chickenrat; Neighbours
7:30 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - Two Of A Kind; The Red Balloon
7:45 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Antarctic Adventure; Let It Snowball, Let It Snowball, Let It Snowball
8:15 PM: Bluey - Show & Tell
8:25 PM: Bluey - Easter; Barky Boats; Escape
8:45 PM: Bluey - Faceytalk; Ragdoll; Fairytale
9:15 PM: SuperKitties - Sparks vs. Sparks / Poochy Playdate
9:45 PM: Bluey - Rug Island; Hairdressers; Sticky Gecko
10:10 PM: Bluey - Musical Statues / Stories / Puppets
10:35 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Homesick/Goldfish Goofy
11:00 PM: The Little Mermaid ||
 5:15 PM: Mickey's Great Clubhouse Hunt
6:10 PM: SuperKitties - Voice With No Choice; Brother Battle
6:35 PM: SuperKitties - Amara's Tiara; Furball Blooper
7:00 PM: Bluey - Backpackers; The Adventure; Copycat
7:25 PM: Bluey - Squash; Charades; Bingo
7:50 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - The Fun Zone; Morphle Ball
8:05 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - Two Of A Kind; The Red Balloon
8:20 PM: PJ Masks: Power Heroes - Luna the Sun Girl; Cats on Wheels
8:40 PM: Bluey - Yoga Ball
9:05 PM: Bluey - Bedroom; Perfect; Obstacle Course
9:30 PM: Pupstruction - Luna's Bad Hair Day; Happy Maya's Day
9:55 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - No Bear Hugs; Where's Funny?
10:20 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Mickey's Sky-High Birthday!; The What About Me Birthday
10:45 PM: Firebuds - Wayne's Trains and Automobiles; Jazzy Buds || 
 6:20 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Itsy-Bitsy Spiders / Gobby's Rotten Pumpkin Hunt
6:45 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Catnap Caper / Bunny Bonanza
7:10 PM: SuperKitties - Lost Spark; Bitsy Bellyache
7:35 PM: SuperKitties - Lab Rat Lift-Off/Rockin' Rockhound
8:00 PM: Bluey - Easter; Barky Boats; Escape
8:25 PM: Bluey - Turtle Boy / Onesies / Tradies
8:50 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - The Cucumber Mystery; Chroma's Magic Match
9:05 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - Morphle The Bus; Rainbow Chasers
9:20 PM: PJ Masks: Power Heroes - The Sun Factory; Catboy Does It All
9:40 PM: Bluey - Helicopter; Octopus; Baby Race
10:05 PM: Bluey - Chest / Omelette / Pass the Parcel
10:30 PM: Pupstruction - Home Stinky Home; Dump Truck Dilemma
10:55 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - The Enchanted Tea Party! / Unhappy Campers
11:20 PM: Mickey Mouse Clubhouse - Mickey's Springtime Surprise
11:45 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Itsy-Bitsy Spiders / Gobby's Rotten Pumpkin Hunt ||
 With the acts in the bottom two receiving three votes each, the result went to deadlock and reverted to the earlier public vote. Thompson was eliminated as the act with the fewest public votes
 6:25 PM: SuperKitties - Super-Fan / Bubble Bother
6:50 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Goofy Foot Grommet; The Enchanted Rescue
7:15 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Is there a Plumber in the House?/A Fish Tale
7:40 PM: Bluey - Phones / Pavlova / Rain
8:05 PM: Bluey - Dunny; Duck Cake; Handstand
8:30 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - The Unwinnable Game; Pet Sitting
8:45 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Gob-Zilla / Speedy Spidey Delivery
9:15 PM: Bluey - Dragon
9:25 PM: Bluey - Shops; The Pool; Blue Mountains
9:45 PM: Bluey - The Sleepover; Hide and Seek; Camping
10:15 PM: SuperKitties - Fruit Loot; Buddy Wanna-Be
10:45 PM: Bluey - Pirates; Chickenrat; Neighbours
11:10 PM: Bluey - Keepy Uppy; Magic Xylophone; Shadowlands
11:30 PM: Bluey - Dragon
11:40 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Festival of Heroes! / I Wander Where the Warbler Went
12:05 AM: Pupstruction - The Wishbone Comet; The Never-Ending Treehouse || 
 6:25 PM: SuperKitties - Hole Lot of Trouble; Roboctopus
6:50 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - For Pete's Sake! / Minnie Golf
7:15 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Clarabelle's Pie Day / Minnie's New Puppy
7:40 PM: Bluey - Rug Island; Hairdressers; Sticky Gecko
8:05 PM: Bluey - Squash; Charades; Bingo
8:30 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - Two Of A Kind; The Red Balloon
8:45 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - The Friendly Neighborhood; Flight of the Butterflies
9:15 PM: Bluey - Wild Girls
9:25 PM: Bluey - Housework / Sheepdog / Explorers
9:45 PM: Bluey - Yoga Ball
10:15 PM: Superkitties - Missing Mr. Greenie/Piano Problem
10:45 PM: Bluey - Musical Statues / Stories / Puppets
11:10 PM: Bluey - Teasing; Shaun; Daddy Robot
11:30 PM: Bluey - Wild Girls
11:40 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Minnie Goes Ape/Dino Doggies
12:05 AM: Pupstruction - A Bright Idea / the Friendliest Frog || 
 6:25 PM: SuperKitties - Bird Bop / Pickle Problem
6:50 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Daisy & Goofy Clean Up!; Crayon World!
7:15 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Farfus' Family! / the Adventure Parade
7:40 PM: Bluey - Ice Cream; Bad Mood; Double Babysitter
8:05 PM: Bluey - Fairies; Work; Bumpy and the Wise Old Wolfhound
8:30 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - Morphle The Bus; Rainbow Chasers
8:45 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Clean Power / Doc Ock & the Rocktobots
9:15 PM: Bluey - TV Shop
9:25 PM: Bluey - Kids; Butterflies; The Creek
9:45 PM: Bluey - Bob Bilby; Spygame; Takeaway
10:15 PM: SuperKitties - Voice With No Choice; Brother Battle
10:45 PM: Bluey - Turtle Boy / Onesies / Tradies
11:10 PM: Bluey - The Doctor; The Claw; Markets
11:30 PM: Bluey - TV Shop
11:40 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Goofy Foot Grommet; The Enchanted Rescue
12:05 AM: Pupstruction - The Mayor Mover; Bobby's Balloon Blunder ||
 6:25 PM: SuperKitties - Sparks vs. Sparks / Poochy Playdate
6:50 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Bottled Up/Minnie's Fairy Tale
7:15 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Chickie Boo-Boo, Where Are You?; Playground Heroes!
7:40 PM: Bluey - See Saw; Movies; Grandad
8:05 PM: Bluey - Pizza Girls; Tina; Whale Watching
8:30 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - Gobblefrog; The Perfect Day
8:45 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Parade Panic / the Case of the Burgling Book Bandi
9:15 PM: Bluey - Slide
9:25 PM: Bluey - The Beach
9:45 PM: Bluey - The Weekend
10:15 PM: SuperKitties - Amara's Tiara; Furball Blooper
10:45 PM: Bluey - Keepy Uppy; Magic Xylophone; Shadowlands
11:10 PM: Bluey - Bus; Mum School; Piggyback
11:30 PM: Bluey - Slide
11:40 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Minnie's Big Delivery! / The Wandrin' Warbler
12:05 AM: Pupstruction - Pizza-Struction / Baby Builders || 
 6:25 PM: SuperKitties - Cheesenado / Talented Troublemaker
6:50 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Curse of the Crusty Clam!; Dream a Little Dream
7:15 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Rain, Rain, Go Away; Donald's Razzle Dazzle Deal!
7:40 PM: Firebuds - Piston's Driving School; Jazzyland
8:05 PM: Bluey - Squash; Charades; Bingo
8:30 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - The Fun Zone; Morphle Ball
8:45 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - How to Train Your Doggy; Dome Alone
9:15 PM: Bluey - Cricket
9:25 PM: Bluey - Shops; The Pool; Blue Mountains
9:45 PM: Bluey - Housework / Sheepdog / Explorers
10:15 PM: SuperKitties - Jumbo Rat / New Friend Fiasco
10:45 PM: Bluey - The Sleepover; Hide and Seek; Camping
11:10 PM: Bluey - Mr. Monkeyjocks / Typewriter / Burger Shop
11:30 PM: Bluey - Cricket
11:40 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Daisy and the Missing Dream / Daisy's Big Picture
12:05 AM: Pupstruction - Pup Princess / Trash Truck Pups ||
 6:30 PM: Pupstruction - Pup Princess / Trash Truck Pups
6:55 PM: SuperKitties - Jumbo Rat / New Friend Fiasco
7:20 PM: SuperKitties - Lab Rat Lift-Off/Rockin' Rockhound
7:45 PM: Bluey - In the Garden
8:25 PM: Bluey - Faceytalk; Ragdoll; Fairytale
8:50 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - The Unwinnable Game; Pet Sitting
9:05 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - Morphle The Bus; Rainbow Chasers
9:20 PM: PJ Masks: Power Heroes - The Catastrophe Stone / the Legend of Moon Pirate
9:40 PM: Bluey - Mum and Dads; Mount Mumandad; Asparagus
10:05 PM: Bluey - Early Baby; Hospital; Daddy Putdown
10:30 PM: Pupstruction - Amusement Park-ing; The Dino-Dog Dig
10:55 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Goofy Foot Grommet; The Enchanted Rescue
11:20 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - King Ludwig's Day Off; No Horsing Around
11:45 PM: Firebuds - Treehouse Trouble; The Getaway Car That Got Away || 
 6:10 PM: Bluey - Turtle Boy / Onesies / Tradies
6:40 PM: Spidey And His Amazing Friends - Good Guy Gobby/Spider Monkey
7:05 PM: SuperKitties - Jumbo Rat / New Friend Fiasco
7:30 PM: SuperKitties - Cat Tree Caper / Showstopper
8:00 PM: Bluey - Pizza Girls; Tina; Whale Watching
8:25 PM: Bluey - Kids; Butterflies; The Creek
8:50 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - Two Of A Kind; The Red Balloon
9:05 PM: PJ Masks: Power Heroes - Space Fairy Hero / Lilyfay and the Lake
9:35 PM: Bluey - Promises; Magic; Mini Bluey
10:00 PM: Bluey - Ghostbasket
10:10 PM: Bluey - Bedroom; Perfect; Obstacle Course
10:30 PM: Pupstruction - Pup Princess / Trash Truck Pups
10:55 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - HALT, Tiger!; You Gotta Be Kitten Me!
11:20 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Low-Key Coqu; Pinky and the Bees
11:45 PM: Firebuds - Cleft Hood; The Case of the Disappearing Doghouses ||
 Walsh: Ricky Boleto – gave no reason but said he was Horsing around the studio which was not a trick but said that there were no horses in the studio. Horses get used for cleaning and riding
 Cole: Ricky Boleto – said that there were no horses in the studio because of the policy they have in work for Disney Junior although he tried his hardest at cleaning horses and riding them. But he didn't clean and ride a horse so didn't go to the horse races
 Cowell: Jen and Leah - said that they made mistakes and get distracted by Pringle's excitement about 2 Pupstruction episodes and also got the excited mistake wrong and tried to get Pringle excited for pupstruction. That was the mistake they made
 Humes: Ricky Boleto - gave no reason but said that horse riding in the studio without consent was the worst thing to do and didn't clean the horse and didn't ride a horse which he couldn't do really well and was Horsing around 
 Richards: Ricky Boleto – said that riding a horse in the studio cannot be a good idea and said that Boleto can try his hardest at riding a horse and cleaning a horse as well as grooming them as part of a job and there was many incidents with a horse in the studio
 Minogue was not required to vote as there was already a majority
 6:25 PM: SuperKitties - Jumbo Rat / New Friend Fiasco
6:50 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Daisy and the Muses; Keep on the Ball
7:15 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Crystal Clearwater vs. the Annoying Algae; Trolland's Big Adventure!
7:40 PM: Bluey - Muffin Cone; Circus; Road Trip
8:05 PM: Bluey - Bus; Mum School; Piggyback
8:30 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - The Morphle Mile / Mila's First Sleepover
8:45 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Hide & Seek; Whale of a Time
9:15 PM: Bluey - Exercise
9:25 PM: Bluey - Squash; Charades; Bingo
9:45 PM: Bluey - Trains; Queens; Flat Pack
10:15 PM: SuperKitties - Groggy Groundhogs/Go Birdy
10:45 PM: Bluey - Shops; The Pool; Blue Mountains
11:10 PM: Bluey - The Doctor; The Claw; Markets
11:30 PM: Bluey - Relax
11:40 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Ready to Play, Ruthie! / Goofy Dogs
12:05 AM: Pupstruction - Built To Build; Pup DE-struction || 
 6:25 PM: SuperKitties - Bird Bop / Pickle Problem
6:50 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Crystal Clear Waters; The Big Funhouse Sleepover
7:15 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Goofy Foot Grommet; The Enchanted Rescue
7:40 PM: Bluey - Horsey Ride; Hotel; Bike
8:05 PM: Bluey - The Show; Ticklecrabs; Escape
8:30 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - The Cucumber Mystery; Chroma's Magic Match
8:45 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Ock Tower; Outsmarted by Art
9:15 PM: Bluey - Wild Girls
9:25 PM: Bluey - Faceytalk; Ragdoll; Fairytale
9:45 PM: Bluey - Backpackers; The Adventure; Copycat
10:15 PM: Super Kitties - Toy-Tastrophe/Night Light
10:45 PM: Bluey - Mum and Dads; Mount Mumandad; Asparagus
11:10 PM: Bluey - Chest / Omelette / Pass the Parcel
11:30 PM: Bluey - TV Shop
11:40 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Is there a Plumber in the House?/A Fish Tale
12:05 AM: Pupstruction - Home Stinky Home; Dump Truck Dilemma || 
 6:25 PM: SuperKitties - Silent Surprise / Fufu Snafu
6:50 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Dino See, Dino Do; Pete the Mighty Baby!
7:15 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - There's Something About Teddy! / Finders Keepers?
7:40 PM: Bluey - Fairies; Work; Bumpy and the Wise Old Wolfhound
8:05 PM: Bluey - Yoga Ball
8:30 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - Morphle The Bus; Rainbow Chasers
8:45 PM: Spidey And His Amazing Friends - Liberty on the Loose; Green Goblin's Dino Disaster
9:15 PM: Bluey - Cubby
9:25 PM: Bluey - Kids; Butterflies; The Creek
9:45 PM: Bluey - Hammerbarn; Feather Wand; Dance Mode
10:15 PM: SuperKitties - Hole Lot of Trouble; Roboctopus
10:45 PM: Bluey - The Beach
11:10 PM: Bluey - Phones / Pavlova / Rain
11:30 PM: Bluey - Exercise
11:40 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Rain, Rain, Go Away; Donald's Razzle Dazzle Deal!
12:05 AM: Pupstruction - Pup Princess / Trash Truck Pups ||
 6:25 PM: SuperKitties - Sparks vs. Sparks / Poochy Playdate
6:50 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Finding Treasure!; Witchy Worries
7:15 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - The Mighty Goof!; Playtime in Crayon World
7:40 PM: Bluey - Trampoline
8:05 PM: Bluey - Favourite Thing; Daddy Dropoff; Sleepytime
8:30 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - The Unwinnable Game; Pet Sitting
8:45 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Going Green / Coming Clean
9:15 PM: Bluey - Dragon
9:25 PM: Bluey - Library; Swim School; Bin Night
9:45 PM: Bluey - The Doctor; The Claw; Markets
10:15 PM: Superkitties - Missing Mr. Greenie/Piano Problem
10:45 PM: Bluey - The Weekend
11:10 PM: Bluey - Musical Statues / Stories / Puppets
11:30 PM: Bluey - Wild Girls
11:40 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - 3:10 to Rocky Road; Please and Thank You
12:05 AM: Pupstruction - Itty Bitty Barn Build / a Colorful Job || 
 6:25 PM: SuperKitties - Lost Spark; Bitsy Bellyache
6:50 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Tooth or Consequences! / the Heroic Games
7:15 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Bottled Up/Minnie's Fairy Tale
7:40 PM: Firebuds - The Birthday Blaze / Everybody Loves Axl
8:05 PM: Bluey - The Show; Ticklecrabs; Escape
8:30 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - The Fun Zone; Morphle Ball
8:45 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Tree Trouble; Stuck In Space
9:15 PM: Bluey - Ghostbasket
9:25 PM: Bluey - Trains; Queens; Flat Pack
9:45 PM: Bluey - Faceytalk; Ragdoll; Fairytale
10:15 PM: SuperKitties - Dancing Piggy; Super Helpers
10:45 PM: Bluey - Dirt / Cricket / Driving
11:10 PM: Bluey - Shops; The Pool; Blue Mountains
11:30 PM: Bluey - Cricket
11:40 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Saving Major Green!; Minnie Safari
12:05 AM: Pupstruction - The Mayor Mover; Bobby's Balloon Blunder ||
 6:45 PM: SuperKitties - Dancing Piggy; Super Helpers
7:10 PM: SuperKitties - Fruit Loot; Buddy Wanna-Be
7:35 PM: Bluey - Dirt / Cricket / Driving
8:00 PM: Bluey - Pirates; Chickenrat; Neighbours
8:25 PM: Bluey - Housework / Sheepdog / Explorers
8:50 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - Two Of A Kind; The Red Balloon
9:05 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - The Cucumber Mystery; Chroma's Magic Match
9:20 PM: PJ Masks: Power Heroes - Iceworld; Iceworld Part II
9:40 PM: Bluey - Fairies; Work; Bumpy and the Wise Old Wolfhound
10:05 PM: Bluey - Unicorse; Born Yesterday; Curry Quest
10:30 PM: Pupstruction - Pup Princess / Trash Truck Pups
10:55 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Welcome to Giant Crab Island! / Ghosts of Haunted
11:20 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Goofy Foot Grommet; The Enchanted Rescue
11:45 PM: Firebuds - Puppy Pursuit / the Ice Cream Truck Bandits || 
 6:30 PM: Bluey - Outdoor Adventures Special
7:10 PM: SuperKitties - Missing Hot Dog / Mysterious Magician
7:35 PM: SuperKitties - Jumbo Rat / New Friend Fiasco
8:00 PM: Bluey - Trampoline
8:25 PM: Bluey - Phones / Pavlova / Rain
8:50 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - The Unwinnable Game; Pet Sitting
9:05 PM: PJ Masks: Power Heroes - The Catastrophe Stone / the Legend of Moon Pirate
9:35 PM: Bluey - Dirt / Cricket / Driving
10:00 PM: Bluey - The Sign
10:30 PM: Pupstruction - Amusement Park-ing; The Dino-Dog Dig
10:55 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Goofy Foot Grommet; The Enchanted Rescue
11:20 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Saving Major Green!; Minnie Safari
11:45 PM: Firebuds - Sugar Crash / the Cut N' Chrome Caper ||
 Cowell: Olivia and Jenny – backed her own act. De'Graft Mensah 
 Walsh: De'Graft Mensah – backed his own act. Nathan and Kemi
 Cole: De'Graft Mensah - said that the puppy was missing and said that he couldn't find the a puppy for her.
 Minogue: Olivia and Jenny - gave no reason but said they didn't make any magic matches as they didn't have the time to do it.
 Grant: Olivia and Jenny – said that if they found their matches then they will still be Magic but they dont have any Magic as she said. And also said that their magic match is not magic.
 Cole: De'Graft Mensah – said that both acts do not have a magic match and have lost a puppy so she chose to take it to Deadlock
 With the acts in the bottom two receiving three votes each, the result went to deadlock and reverted to the earlier public vote. Mensah was eliminated as the act with the fewest public votes
 1:25 PM SuperKitties Dancing Piggy; Super Helpers
1:50 PM Mickey Mouse Funhouse Saving Major Green!; Minnie Safari
2:15 PM Mickey Mouse Funhouse Majestica's New Troubadour!; Minnie's Pod Mod
2:40 PM Bluey The Weekend; BBQ; Fruitbat
3:05 PM Bluey See Saw; Movies; Grandad
3:30 PM Morphle and the Magic Pets Morphle Gets the Hiccups; Orphle vs. the Ferrris Wheel
3:45 PM Marvel's Spidey and His Amazing Friends Picture Perfect Pandemonium; Catch That Panther Pod
4:15 PM Bluey The Sign
4:45 PM Bluey Musical Statues; Stories; Puppets
5:15 PM SuperKitties Treat Truck Trouble; Leapin' Laser
5:45 PM Bluey The Quiet Game / Postman / Cafe
6:10 PM Bluey Early Baby; Hospital; Daddy Putdown
6:30 PM Bluey Stickbird
6:40 PM Mickey Mouse Funhouse Bottled Up!; Minnie's Fairy Tale!
7:05 PM Marvel's Spidey and His Amazing Friends The Friendly Neighborhood || 
 6:25 PM: SuperKitties - Have a Ball/Zsa-Zsa Zoom
6:50 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Rain, Rain, Go Away; Donald's Razzle Dazzle Deal!
7:15 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - No Bear Hugs; Where's Funny?
7:40 PM: Bluey - Bedroom; Perfect; Obstacle Course
8:05 PM: Bluey - Squash; Charades; Bingo
8:30 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - The Morphle Mile / Mila's First Sleepover
8:45 PM: Spidey And His Amazing Friends - Aunt May's Mess/Foam Sweet Foam
9:15 PM: Bluey - TV Shop
9:25 PM: Bluey - Pirates; Chickenrat; Neighbours
9:45 PM: Bluey - The Show; Ticklecrabs; Escape
10:15 PM: SuperKitties - Jumbo Rat / New Friend Fiasco
10:45 PM: Bluey - Housework / Sheepdog / Explorers
11:10 PM: Bluey - Pizza Girls; Tina; Whale Watching
11:30 PM: Bluey - Ghostbasket
11:40 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - The Enchanted Tea Party! / Unhappy Campers
12:05 AM: Pupstruction - Pup Princess / Trash Truck Pups || 
 6:25 PM: SuperKitties - Bird Bop / Pickle Problem
6:50 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Is there a Plumber in the House?/A Fish Tale
7:15 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Festival of Heroes! / I Wander Where the Warbler Went
7:40 PM: Bluey - Shops; The Pool; Blue Mountains
8:05 PM: Bluey - Yoga Ball
8:30 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - Morphle The Bus; Rainbow Chasers
8:45 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Ock's Obey Ray; Lemur At Large
9:15 PM: Bluey - Cubby
9:25 PM: Bluey - Helicopter; Octopus; Baby Race
9:45 PM: Bluey - Rug Island; Hairdressers; Sticky Gecko
10:15 PM: SuperKitties - Fireworks Fright / Cheese Trees
10:45 PM: Bluey - Mr. Monkeyjocks / Typewriter / Burger Shop
11:10 PM: Bluey - Trains; Queens; Flat Pack
11:30 PM: Bluey - Relax
11:40 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Saving Major Green!; Minnie Safari
12:05 AM: Pupstruction - Builders to Bakers; Truck Frenzy ||
 6:25 PM: SuperKitties - Missing Hot Dog / Mysterious Magician
6:50 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Daisy & Goofy Clean Up!; Crayon World!
7:15 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - The Kooky Paleontologist!; That's My Jam!
7:40 PM: Bluey - Trampoline
8:05 PM: Bluey - Family Meeting; Barky Boats; Smoochy Kiss
8:30 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - Gobblefrog; The Perfect Day
8:45 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - The Rhino and the Goose; Dog vs Cat
9:15 PM: Bluey - Exercise
9:25 PM: Bluey - Phones / Pavlova / Rain
9:45 PM: Bluey - The Weekend
10:15 PM: SuperKitties - Cheesenado / Talented Troublemaker
10:45 PM: Bluey - Favourite Thing; Daddy Dropoff; Sleepytime
11:10 PM: Bluey - See Saw; Movies; Grandad
11:30 PM: Bluey - Stickbird
11:40 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Crystal Clear Waters; The Big Funhouse Sleepover
12:05 AM: Pupstruction - Hush Puppies; Beach Day Build-Off || 
 6:25 PM: SuperKitties - Hole Lot of Trouble; Roboctopus
6:50 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Crystal Clearwater vs. the Annoying Algae; Trolland's Big Adventure!
7:15 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Goofy Foot Grommet; The Enchanted Rescue
7:40 PM: Firebuds - Picnic Pile-Up; Duo Dash
8:05 PM: Bluey - Bedroom; Perfect; Obstacle Course
8:30 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - Two Of A Kind; The Red Balloon
8:45 PM: Spidey and His Amazing Friends - Clean Power / Doc Ock & the Rocktobots
9:15 PM: Bluey - Slide
9:25 PM: Bluey - Teasing; Shaun; Daddy Robot
9:45 PM: Bluey - Turtle Boy / Onesies / Tradies
10:15 PM: SuperKitties - Museum Mayhem; Big Dig
10:45 PM: Bluey - Granny Mobile / Space / Cubby
11:10 PM: Bluey - Squash; Charades; Bingo
11:30 PM: Bluey - Dragon
11:40 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Mickey's Sky-High Birthday!; The What About Me Birthday
12:05 AM: Pupstruction - Amusement Park-ing; The Dino-Dog Dig ||
 6:30 PM: Pupstruction - Pup Princess / Trash Truck Pups
7:00 PM: SuperKitties - Jumbo Rat / New Friend Fiasco
7:25 PM: Super Kitties - Toy-Tastrophe/Night Light
7:55 PM: Bluey - Ice Cream; Bad Mood; Double Babysitter
8:20 PM: Bluey - Housework / Sheepdog / Explorers
8:50 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - The Morphle Mile / Mila's First Sleepover
9:05 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - The Fun Zone; Morphle Ball
9:20 PM: PJ Masks: Power Heroes - Return to Planet Gloop; Return to Planet Gloop Part II
9:40 PM: Bluey - The Doctor; The Claw; Markets
10:05 PM: Bluey - Pizza Girls; Tina; Whale Watching
10:30 PM: Pupstruction - Pizza-Struction / Baby Builders
10:55 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Is there a Plumber in the House?/A Fish Tale
11:20 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Saving Major Green!; Minnie Safari
11:45 PM: Firebuds - Science Fair Snafu; The Scavenger Hunt || 
 6:30 PM: Bluey - Surprise
6:40 PM: Bluey - The Beach
7:10 PM: SuperKitties - Dancing Piggy; Super Helpers
7:35 PM: SuperKitties - Amara's Tiara; Furball Blooper
8:00 PM: Bluey - Dirt / Cricket / Driving
8:25 PM: Bluey - Horsey Ride; Hotel; Bike
8:50 PM: Morphle and the Magic Pets - Morphle Gets the Hiccups / Orphle VS. the Ferrris Wheel
9:05 PM: PJ Masks: Power Heroes - Luna the Sun Girl; Cats on Wheels
9:35 PM: Bluey - Mr. Monkeyjocks / Typewriter / Burger Shop
10:00 PM: Bluey - Surprise
10:10 PM: Bluey - Granny Mobile / Space / Cubby
10:30 PM: Pupstruction - The Wishbone Comet; The Never-Ending Treehouse
10:55 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Rain, Rain, Go Away; Donald's Razzle Dazzle Deal!
11:20 PM: Mickey Mouse Funhouse - Crystal Clear Waters; The Big Funhouse Sleepover
11:45 PM: Firebuds - Mayhem at the Museum; Wrong Way Rescue ||
 Minogue: Hayley and Leah – backed her own act. De'Graft Mensah
 Walsh: De'Graft Mensah – backed his own act. Hayley and Leah
 Cowell: Hayley and Leah - said that he found Hassall and Boleto's weekend presenting was a trickiest thing they did and said that Spidey should have been on instead of Bluey..
 Cole: De'Graft Mensah - gave no reason but said that the ferris wheel was the highest that had scared him and he didn't face his fears and she stated that he tried to scare her
 Trainor: Hayley and Leah – said that presenting on the weekend was so tricky for them too and also said that spidey should have been non instead of the bluey and that would have been a trick and said that that was a trickiest presenting they've ever done that day.
 O'Donoghue: Hayley and Leah – said that where weekend was so tricky and also that spidey wasn't on that day but bluey was but he wished that spidey was on which was usually on the schedule which made it very tricky for them too


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate, or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will. However,   The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized, or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works  .
 Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content. However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever. Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops, or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers, or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify, or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, or similar rights that are mentioned, used, or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated, Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by, nor affiliated with, any of the holders of any such rights, and as such, Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or recently-deceased. The use of images of living or recently-deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.  
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution. Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain, or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management), please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?returnto=Artificial+intelligence&title=Special:UserLogin&centralAuthAutologinTried=1&centralAuthError=Not+centrally+logged+in

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Wikipedia_fully_protected_project_pages

Content: This category and its subcategories contain project pages which have been   in line with the  . Full protection prevents a page from being edited except by  . For semi-protected pages, which cannot be edited by  , see  .
 To add a page to this category, use  . This should only be done if the page is in fact protected – adding the template does not in itself protect the page.
 The following 111 pages are in this category, out of  111 total.  .


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?returnto=Artificial+intelligence&title=Special:UserLogin&centralAuthAutologinTried=1&centralAuthError=Not+centrally+logged+in

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Wikipedia_disclaimers

Content: This category and the navigation bar below contain the official Wikipedia  . All of these pages are protected, as their content needs to be carefully worded and free of disruption for legal reasons, and they should generally not be changed without extensive discussion.
 The following 6 pages are in this category, out of  6 total.  .


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Wikipedia_fully_protected_project_pages

Content: This category and its subcategories contain project pages which have been   in line with the  . Full protection prevents a page from being edited except by  . For semi-protected pages, which cannot be edited by  , see  .
 To add a page to this category, use  . This should only be done if the page is in fact protected – adding the template does not in itself protect the page.
 The following 111 pages are in this category, out of  111 total.  .


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?returnto=Artificial+intelligence&title=Special:UserLogin&centralAuthAutologinTried=1&centralAuthError=Not+centrally+logged+in

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Wikipedia_fully_protected_project_pages

Content: This category and its subcategories contain project pages which have been   in line with the  . Full protection prevents a page from being edited except by  . For semi-protected pages, which cannot be edited by  , see  .
 To add a page to this category, use  . This should only be done if the page is in fact protected – adding the template does not in itself protect the page.
 The following 111 pages are in this category, out of  111 total.  .


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Artificial+intelligence&campaign=loginCTA

Content: edits articles recent contributors

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Wikipedia_disclaimers

Content: This category and the navigation bar below contain the official Wikipedia  . All of these pages are protected, as their content needs to be carefully worded and free of disruption for legal reasons, and they should generally not be changed without extensive discussion.
 The following 6 pages are in this category, out of  6 total.  .


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Wikipedia_fully_protected_project_pages

Content: This category and its subcategories contain project pages which have been   in line with the  . Full protection prevents a page from being edited except by  . For semi-protected pages, which cannot be edited by  , see  .
 To add a page to this category, use  . This should only be done if the page is in fact protected – adding the template does not in itself protect the page.
 The following 111 pages are in this category, out of  111 total.  .


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Wikipedia_disclaimers

Content: This category and the navigation bar below contain the official Wikipedia  . All of these pages are protected, as their content needs to be carefully worded and free of disruption for legal reasons, and they should generally not be changed without extensive discussion.
 The following 6 pages are in this category, out of  6 total.  .


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Artificial+intelligence&campaign=loginCTA

Content: edits articles recent contributors

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:PasswordReset

Content: Fill in one of the fields to receive a temporary password via email.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Artificial+intelligence&campaign=loginCTA

Content: edits articles recent contributors

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:PasswordReset

Content: Fill in one of the fields to receive a temporary password via email.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:QrCode&url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fw%2Findex.php%3Ftitle%3DSpecial%3AUserLogin%26centralAuthAutologinTried%3D1%26centralAuthError%3DNot%2Bcentrally%2Blogged%2Bin%26returnto%3DArtificial%2Bintelligence

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:PasswordReset

Content: Fill in one of the fields to receive a temporary password via email.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UrlShortener&url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fw%2Findex.php%3Ftitle%3DSpecial%3AUserLogin%26centralAuthAutologinTried%3D1%26centralAuthError%3DNot%2Bcentrally%2Blogged%2Bin%26returnto%3DArtificial%2Bintelligence

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:QrCode&url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fw%2Findex.php%3Ftitle%3DSpecial%3AUserLogin%26centralAuthAutologinTried%3D1%26centralAuthError%3DNot%2Bcentrally%2Blogged%2Bin%26returnto%3DArtificial%2Bintelligence

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:QrCode&url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fw%2Findex.php%3Ftitle%3DSpecial%3AUserLogin%26centralAuthAutologinTried%3D1%26centralAuthError%3DNot%2Bcentrally%2Blogged%2Bin%26returnto%3DArtificial%2Bintelligence

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&returnto=Artificial+intelligence&returntoquery=centralAuthAutologinTried%3D1%26centralAuthError%3DNot%2Bcentrally%2Blogged%2Bin

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UrlShortener&url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fw%2Findex.php%3Ftitle%3DSpecial%3AUserLogin%26centralAuthAutologinTried%3D1%26centralAuthError%3DNot%2Bcentrally%2Blogged%2Bin%26returnto%3DArtificial%2Bintelligence

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Artificial+intelligence&returntoquery=centralAuthAutologinTried%3D1%26centralAuthError%3DNot%2Bcentrally%2Blogged%2Bin

Content: edits articles recent contributors

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&returnto=Artificial+intelligence&returntoquery=centralAuthAutologinTried%3D1%26centralAuthError%3DNot%2Bcentrally%2Blogged%2Bin

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UrlShortener&url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fw%2Findex.php%3Ftitle%3DSpecial%3AUserLogin%26centralAuthAutologinTried%3D1%26centralAuthError%3DNot%2Bcentrally%2Blogged%2Bin%26returnto%3DArtificial%2Bintelligence

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&returnto=Artificial+intelligence&returntoquery=centralAuthAutologinTried%3D1%26centralAuthError%3DNot%2Bcentrally%2Blogged%2Bin

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Artificial+intelligence&returntoquery=centralAuthAutologinTried%3D1%26centralAuthError%3DNot%2Bcentrally%2Blogged%2Bin

Content: edits articles recent contributors

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personality_rights

Content: , sometimes referred to as the  , are rights for an individual to control the commercial use of their identity, such as name, image, likeness, or other unequivocal identifiers. They are generally considered as  , rather than  , and so the validity of personality rights of publicity may survive the death of the individual to varying degrees, depending on the jurisdiction.
 Personality rights are generally considered to consist of two types of rights: the right of publicity,  or the right to keep one's image and likeness from being commercially exploited without permission or contractual compensation, which is similar (but not identical) to the use of a  ; and the  , or the right to be left alone and not have one's personality represented publicly without permission. In   jurisdictions,   fall into the realm of the   of  . United States   has substantially extended this right.
 A commonly cited justification for this doctrine, from a policy standpoint, is the notion of   and the idea that every individual should have a right to control how their right of publicity is commercialized by a third party, if at all.  Often, though certainly not always, the motivation to engage in such commercialization is to help propel sales or visibility for a product or service, which usually amounts to some form of   (which in turn receives the  ).
 In contrast with   jurisdictions, most   jurisdictions have specific civil code provisions that protect an individual's image, personal data and other generally private information.  Exceptions have been carved out of these general, broad privacy rights when dealing with news and public figures. Thus, while it may violate an ordinary citizen's privacy to speak about their medical records, one is generally allowed to report on more intimate details in the lives of celebrities and politicians.
 Unlike most common law jurisdictions the personality rights in civil law are generally inheritable, thus one can make a claim against someone who invades the privacy of a deceased relative if the memory of their character is besmirched by such publication.
 Personality rights have developed out of   concepts of  ,   and intentional  .  Thus personality rights are, generally speaking, judge-made law, though there are   where some aspects of personality rights are statutory. In some jurisdictions, publicity rights and privacy rights are not clearly distinguished, and the term publicity right is generally used. In a publicity rights case the issue to decide is whether a significant section of the public would be misled into believing (incorrectly) that a commercial arrangement had been concluded between a   and a   under which the plaintiff agreed to the advertising involving the image or reputation of a famous person. The actionable misrepresentation requires a suggestion that the plaintiff has endorsed or licensed the defendant's products, or somehow can exercise control over those products. This is done by way of the   of  .
 The meaning of the law is best illustrated by principal cases on the subject.
 In Australia, false association or endorsement is actionable via the law of  , not a separate law of "right of personality". The   case  was a decision of the Supreme Court of New South Wales (both the first instance and appellate jurisdiction). The plaintiffs were   and they sued the defendant in passing off alleging it wrongfully published their photograph on the cover of a gramophone record entitled  . An injunction was granted on the ground that the use suggested the plaintiffs recommended or approved of the defendant's goods, or had some connection with the goods.
 However, in the 1988 case of  ,   , a well known Australian athlete, failed in his attempt to get a damages award after   used a photograph of him in action on a poster without his permission.  The judge held, in essence, that the poster depicted excellence in general rather than a particular person.
 The provinces of  ,  ,  , and   have enacted privacy legislation dealing with personality rights, which have the following traits: 
 Canadian common law recognizes a limited right to personality. It was first acknowledged in the 1971 Ontario decision of  , where the Court held that where a person has marketable value in their likeness and it has been used in a manner that suggests an endorsement of a product then there is grounds for an action in appropriation of personality. This right was later expanded upon in   (1977) where the Court held that the personality right included both image and name.
 In   (1998), the Ontario Court of Appeal concluded that simply writing   somebody, even for the purpose of generating a profit, does not constitute appropriation of personality.
 The general tort of appropriation of personality is still in development, but it is currently  being argued that it will be recognized in all common law provinces,  with certain characteristics: 
 In 1994, the new   introduced new provisions that enshrine the right to privacy as an attribute of personality: 
  Every person is the holder of personality rights, such as the right to life, the right to the inviolability and integrity of his person, and the right to the respect of his name, reputation and privacy. These rights are inalienable.
 ...
  The following acts, in particular, may be considered as invasions of the privacy of a person:
 In  , the   also affirmed that under Quebec's   privacy provisions, a photographer can take photographs in public places but may not publish the picture unless permission has been obtained from the subject, except where the subject appears in an incidental manner, or whose professional success depends on public opinion.  The relevant provisions of the   are:
   Every person has a right to the safeguard of his dignity, honour and reputation.
   Every person has a right to respect for his private life. Therefore, the following general characteristics may be drawn: 
 In  , people depicted in photographs can oppose their use in advertisements and their publication in magazines, even if it was taken in a public place. 
 In  , the   chapters 26 and 27, provides certain personality rights. The governmental Danish Data Protection Agency, has made a declaration regarding publication on the Internet of pictures taken of persons in a public area: 
 A portrait photograph is defined as a photograph, with the purpose of depicting one or more specific person(s). The personality rights however may be contracted for persons who are generally accepted as public persons.
 In  , personality rights are protected under article 9 of the French civil code.  While publicly known facts and images of public figures are not generally protected, use of someone's image or personal history has been held actionable under French law. The most famous case in recent history is perhaps the publication of the book on   called   in which Mitterrand's doctor published a book that not only revealed private facts about Mitterrand's life, but also revealed medical confidences protected by  .
 In  , personality rights are protected under the  , where the concept of an "absolute person of contemporary history" allows the depiction of individuals who are part of history but still gives them some protection of their rights of privacy outside the public sphere. A succinct statement of the German law can be found in the following judicial statement from the  : the general right of personality has been recognised in the case law of the German   since 1954 as a basic right constitutionally guaranteed by Articles 1 and 2 of the   and at the same time as an "other right" protected in civil law under § 823 (1) of the   (established case law since BGHZ 13, 334, 338 - readers' letters). It guarantees as against all the world the protection of human dignity and the right to free development of the personality. Special forms of manifestation of the general right of personality are the right to one's own picture (§§ 22 ff. of the  ) and the right to one's name (§ 12 of the BGB). They guarantee protection of the personality for the sphere regulated by them. 
 In addition to the general personality rights, there are special rules that forbid taking intimate pictures without consent (§ 184k  ), and that forbid taking pictures which violate the "most personal sphere" of those pictured (§ 201 StGB - in particular, photos of private situations such as inside the bedroom, and photos of helpless persons, such as accident victims). In contrast to the general rules about the right to one's image, these rules also apply to just taking images, not only to publishing them.
 In  , personality rights are protected under the "tutela geral da personalidade" on article 70 of the Portuguese Civil Code and, also, in article 17 of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic.
Some personality rights, like the right to image or honor are specifically typified in the civil code in the articles following the "tutela geral".
Specifically regarding image rights, article 79 of the Portuguese Civil Code states that an image of a person cannot be published or exposed without her consent, even after the person's death (in which case the consent is to be obtained from existing family or heirs). However, consent is not needed for public personalities when in their public roles, for use in scientific, didactic or cultural purposes, or when the image is produced in a public setting. However, if the image harms the honor, reputation or decorum of the person it cannot be reproduced or exposed without consent.
 The relevant Greek laws include 57 AK and 2472/1997. As regarding photography:
 The relevant Guernsey law was enacted on 3 December 2012 under the name of   and allows for the registration of a personality right, together with images associated with that personality. Images are widely defined and can be any number of personal attributes, such as likeness, mannerisms, gestures, voice, nickname etc.
 Personalities able to register fall into 5 categories, namely sole, joint, group, legal and fictional character. In addition, humans can be registered up to 100 years after the date of death, making the law very favourable for estate managers and trustees.
 In  , as in most other common law jurisdictions, there is no separate "personality right", and false association or endorsement is actionable under the law of passing off. The main case on this point relates to   singer/actor   and   over the allegedly unauthorized use of Lau's image on  ,  which has led to the observation that only limited personality rights exist in this jurisdiction. 
 In a 1994 case involving the estate of  , the   acknowledged a property right of personality which survived his death. 
 In October 2007,   duo   sued   for  3.7 million after the publisher's magazine   used photos of the duo on an article on dieting through dancing without their permission. The case was rejected by the  . In February 2012, the Supreme Court rejected the duo's appeal based on the right of publicity. 
 While the concept of Personality Rights is recognized, it is not yet widely known. The Korean terminology ("인격표지영리권", literally translated to "personality sign commercial rights") is still much less frequently used compared to the transcription of the English term "Publicity Rights".
 Nor any independent law on personality rights exist in South Korea (as of October 2023). However, in 2022, a related provision was enacted under the existing Unfair Competition Prevention Act.  This revision is considered to have provided a foundation for an independent Act in near future. Much change is expected as it has been reported that around 80% of Korean entertainment agencies voiced difficulties in publicity right violations of their talents. 
 On Dec. 26, 2022, the Ministry of Justice announced plans to stipulate Personality Rights in Civil Code in the near future. The most notable difference between the new law and the Publicity Rights provision under the Unfair Competition Prevention Act would be the expansion of scope; the new law will go beyond 'celebrities' and will recognize everyone's right to their name, portrait, voice, etc. 
 Personality rights are said to exist to some extent by both influence of constitution and tort liability,  but cases filed to enforce such rights against shopping malls have been unsuccessful. 
 South Korea's portrait rights are too widely recognized compared to other countries. Because of this, it is common for South Korean media reports to blur people's faces in press photos, even though there is no problem of defamation. In contrast, most countries regard blur as a distortion of the truth. It is common that the public's faces photographed only in the South Korean media are blurred even when there in no possibility of defamation. Criticism has been raised against this. 
 In the  , rights of personality are established by statute. According to article 100 and 101 of the   of the People's Republic of China, the right of name and the right of image are protected. It is prohibited to use another's image for commercial use without that person's consent. In the new Tort Liabilities Law which came into effect on Jan 1, 2021, the right of privacy is mentioned for the first time in the legislation. 
 There are few studies on the right to fame in Iranian law. However, through general principles, an attempt has been made to support celebrities. 
 In  , personality rights are protected under the   and the  , which also provides for   and  .  After much uncertainty concerning the recognition of image rights in  , the   provided clarity in the landmark case of  .  In South Africa, a person's right to identity is violated if the attributes of that person is used without permission in a way which cannot be reconciled with the true image of that person.  Apart from the unauthorized use of a person's image, this kind of infringement also entails some kind of misrepresentation concerning the individual, such as that the individual approves or endorses a particular product or service or that an attorney is a partner in a firm, while this is not the case.  Secondly, the right to identity is violated if the attributes of a person is used without authorization by another person for commercial gain.  Apart from the unauthorized use of the individual's image, such use also primarily entails a commercial motive which is exclusively aimed at promoting a service or product or to solicit clients or customers.  The mere fact that the user may benefit or profit from any product or service in respect of which the individual's attributes have incidentally been used, is not in itself sufficient.  This violation of the right to identity therefore also entails unauthorized use of the individual's attributes with a commercial purpose, whether it is done by means of advertisement or the manufacture and distribution of merchandise covered with the attributes of the individual. Personality rights are not absolute and it goes without saying that the use of a person's attributes must be unlawful before a plaintiff will succeed with any claim.  With the use of a person's image, the personality rights, privacy,   and   of the individual must often be weighed against the user's right to  .  The use of a person's image can be justified on the grounds of consent, truth and public interest, fair comment and jest. 
 According to the agency (Spanish) Data Protection for the collection and dissemination on Internet of images of a person without their consent may be a serious breach of the Data Protection Act which would be punishable by a minimum fine of 60,000 euros.  According to   Data Protection Agency decided to investigate ex officio by the mere distribution of the image of a person on the Internet without their consent. 
 In the United States, the right of publicity is a  –based right, as opposed to federal, and recognition of the right can vary from state to state.  The rationale underlying the right of publicity in the   is rooted in both privacy and economic exploitation.   The rights are based in tort law, and parallel Prosser's "Four Torts" which might be summarized as: 1) Intrusion upon physical solitude; 2) public disclosure of private facts; 3) depiction in a false light; and 4) appropriation of name and likeness.  If looking at it through the prism of Prosser's four torts, violation of a right of publicity most closely aligns with appropriation.  The right of publicity often is manifest in advertising or merchandise.  In states without a specific right of publicity statute, the right of publicity is usually recognized via common law.  The right of publicity has evolved rapidly, with a history of reported cases in the United States and worldwide. 
 The right of publicity is defined as the right of all individuals to control commercial use of their names, images, likenesses, or other identifying aspects of identity.  In certain contexts, the right of publicity is limited (under U.S. law) by the  . The right of publicity can be referred to as   or even  . The term "right of publicity" was coined by Judge   in 1953. 
 The extent of recognition of this right in the U.S. is largely driven by   or  . Because the right of publicity is primarily governed by state (as opposed to federal) law, the degree of recognition of the right of publicity can vary from one state to the next. The right of publicity is not simply an analog to trademark law, though it could be noted that the right of publicity has some commonality with the protection of trademarks as long as one understands that the right of publicity is a distinct legal doctrine, with its own policies, objectives and standards, including notable differences from trademark law.  For example, falsity or likelihood of confusion generally do not have to be established to present a colorable right of publicity claim.
 At a national level, the   held in the 1977 case   that the   did not   a   from liability for broadcasting  's   act without his consent. This was the first, and so far the only, U.S. Supreme Court ruling on rights of publicity and it served to confirm the overall validity of the doctrine and the interests it protects.
  has one of the stronger right of publicity statutes in the U.S., providing recognition of the right for 100 years after death, and protecting not only the usual "name, image and likeness", but also  ,  ,  , distinctive appearances, and mannerisms.  Notably, Oklahoma also provides 100 years of protection after death, and Tennessee's statute provides rights that do not ever expire if use is continuous. There are other notable characteristics of the Indiana law,  though most of the major movement in right of publicity emanates from   and  , with a significant body of case law which suggest potentially contradictory positions with respect to recognition of the right of publicity under certain circumstances.
 Some states recognize the right through statute and some others through common law. California has both statutory and common-law strains of authority protecting slightly different forms of the right. The right of publicity shares characteristics of a property right and as such is transferable to the person's heirs after their death. The   was passed in   in 1985 and it extended the personality rights for a celebrity to 70 years after their death. Previously, the 1979   decision by the   held that  's personality rights could not pass to his heirs. 
 California Civil Code Section 3344(a) states:


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Artificial+intelligence&returntoquery=centralAuthAutologinTried%3D1%26centralAuthError%3DNot%2Bcentrally%2Blogged%2Bin

Content: edits articles recent contributors

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Text_of_the_GNU_Free_Documentation_License

Content: 
 Version 1.3, 3 November 2008
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2002, 2007, 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc. < >
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.
 The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other functional and useful document "free" in the sense of freedom: to assure everyone the effective freedom to copy and redistribute it, with or without modifying it, either commercially or noncommercially. Secondarily, this License preserves for the author and publisher a way to get credit for their work, while not being considered responsible for modifications made by others.
 This License is a kind of "copyleft", which means that derivative works of the document must themselves be free in the same sense. It complements the GNU General Public License, which is a copyleft license designed for free software.
 We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for free software, because free software needs free documentation: a free program should come with manuals providing the same freedoms that the software does. But this License is not limited to software manuals; it can be used for any textual work, regardless of subject matter or whether it is published as a printed book. We recommend this License principally for works whose purpose is instruction or reference.
 This License applies to any manual or other work, in any medium, that contains a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it can be distributed under the terms of this License. Such a notice grants a world-wide, royalty-free license, unlimited in duration, to use that work under the conditions stated herein. The "Document", below, refers to any such manual or work. Any member of the public is a licensee, and is addressed as "you". You accept the license if you copy, modify or distribute the work in a way requiring permission under copyright law.
 A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the Document or a portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with modifications and/or translated into another language.
 A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front-matter section of the Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the publishers or authors of the Document to the Document's overall subject (or to related matters) and contains nothing that could fall directly within that overall subject. (Thus, if the Document is in part a textbook of mathematics, a Secondary Section may not explain any mathematics.) The relationship could be a matter of historical connection with the subject or with related matters, or of legal, commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position regarding them.
 The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose titles are designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the notice that says that the Document is released under this License. If a section does not fit the above definition of Secondary then it is not allowed to be designated as Invariant. The Document may contain zero Invariant Sections. If the Document does not identify any Invariant Sections then there are none.
 The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are listed, as Front-Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice that says that the Document is released under this License. A Front-Cover Text may be at most 5 words, and a Back-Cover Text may be at most 25 words.
 A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy, represented in a format whose specification is available to the general public, that is suitable for revising the document straightforwardly with generic text editors or (for images composed of pixels) generic paint programs or (for drawings) some widely available drawing editor, and that is suitable for input to text formatters or for automatic translation to a variety of formats suitable for input to text formatters. A copy made in an otherwise Transparent file format whose markup, or absence of markup, has been arranged to thwart or discourage subsequent modification by readers is not Transparent. An image format is not Transparent if used for any substantial amount of text. A copy that is not "Transparent" is called "Opaque".
 Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain ASCII without markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format, SGML or XML using a publicly available DTD, and standard-conforming simple HTML, PostScript or PDF designed for human modification. Examples of transparent image formats include PNG, XCF and JPG. Opaque formats include proprietary formats that can be read and edited only by proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for which the DTD and/or processing tools are not generally available, and the machine-generated HTML, PostScript or PDF produced by some word processors for output purposes only.
 The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself, plus such following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the material this License requires to appear in the title page. For works in formats which do not have any title page as such, "Title Page" means the text near the most prominent appearance of the work's title, preceding the beginning of the body of the text.
 The "publisher" means any person or entity that distributes copies of the Document to the public.
 A section "Entitled XYZ" means a named subunit of the Document whose title either is precisely XYZ or contains XYZ in parentheses following text that translates XYZ in another language. (Here XYZ stands for a specific section name mentioned below, such as "Acknowledgements", "Dedications", "Endorsements", or "History".) To "Preserve the Title" of such a section when you modify the Document means that it remains a section "Entitled XYZ" according to this definition.
 The Document may include Warranty Disclaimers next to the notice which states that this License applies to the Document. These Warranty Disclaimers are considered to be included by reference in this License, but only as regards disclaiming warranties: any other implication that these Warranty Disclaimers may have is void and has no effect on the meaning of this License.
 You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either commercially or noncommercially, provided that this License, the copyright notices, and the license notice saying this License applies to the Document are reproduced in all copies, and that you add no other conditions whatsoever to those of this License. You may not use technical measures to obstruct or control the reading or further copying of the copies you make or distribute. However, you may accept compensation in exchange for copies. If you distribute a large enough number of copies you must also follow the conditions in section 3.
 You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above, and you may publicly display copies.
 If you publish printed copies (or copies in media that commonly have printed covers) of the Document, numbering more than 100, and the Document's license notice requires Cover Texts, you must enclose the copies in covers that carry, clearly and legibly, all these Cover Texts: Front-Cover Texts on the front cover, and Back-Cover Texts on the back cover. Both covers must also clearly and legibly identify you as the publisher of these copies. The front cover must present the full title with all words of the title equally prominent and visible. You may add other material on the covers in addition. Copying with changes limited to the covers, as long as they preserve the title of the Document and satisfy these conditions, can be treated as verbatim copying in other respects.
 If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit legibly, you should put the first ones listed (as many as fit reasonably) on the actual cover, and continue the rest onto adjacent pages.
 If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document numbering more than 100, you must either include a machine-readable Transparent copy along with each Opaque copy, or state in or with each Opaque copy a computer-network location from which the general network-using public has access to download using public-standard network protocols a complete Transparent copy of the Document, free of added material. If you use the latter option, you must take reasonably prudent steps, when you begin distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure that this Transparent copy will remain thus accessible at the stated location until at least one year after the last time you distribute an Opaque copy (directly or through your agents or retailers) of that edition to the public.
 It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of the Document well before redistributing any large number of copies, to give them a chance to provide you with an updated version of the Document.
 You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document under the conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you release the Modified Version under precisely this License, with the Modified Version filling the role of the Document, thus licensing distribution and modification of the Modified Version to whoever possesses a copy of it. In addition, you must do these things in the Modified Version:
 If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or appendices that qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material copied from the Document, you may at your option designate some or all of these sections as invariant. To do this, add their titles to the list of Invariant Sections in the Modified Version's license notice. These titles must be distinct from any other section titles.
 You may add a section Entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains nothing but endorsements of your Modified Version by various parties—for example, statements of peer review or that the text has been approved by an organization as the authoritative definition of a standard.
 You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text, and a passage of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of the list of Cover Texts in the Modified Version. Only one passage of Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover Text may be added by (or through arrangements made by) any one entity. If the Document already includes a cover text for the same cover, previously added by you or by arrangement made by the same entity you are acting on behalf of, you may not add another; but you may replace the old one, on explicit permission from the previous publisher that added the old one.
 The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License give permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or imply endorsement of any Modified Version.
 You may combine the Document with other documents released under this License, under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified versions, provided that you include in the combination all of the Invariant Sections of all of the original documents, unmodified, and list them all as Invariant Sections of your combined work in its license notice, and that you preserve all their Warranty Disclaimers.
 The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and multiple identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single copy. If there are multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but different contents, make the title of each such section unique by adding at the end of it, in parentheses, the name of the original author or publisher of that section if known, or else a unique number. Make the same adjustment to the section titles in the list of Invariant Sections in the license notice of the combined work.
 In the combination, you must combine any sections Entitled "History" in the various original documents, forming one section Entitled "History"; likewise combine any sections Entitled "Acknowledgements", and any sections Entitled "Dedications". You must delete all sections Entitled "Endorsements".
 You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other documents released under this License, and replace the individual copies of this License in the various documents with a single copy that is included in the collection, provided that you follow the rules of this License for verbatim copying of each of the documents in all other respects.
 You may extract a single document from such a collection, and distribute it individually under this License, provided you insert a copy of this License into the extracted document, and follow this License in all other respects regarding verbatim copying of that document.
 A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate and independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or distribution medium, is called an "aggregate" if the copyright resulting from the compilation is not used to limit the legal rights of the compilation's users beyond what the individual works permit. When the Document is included in an aggregate, this License does not apply to the other works in the aggregate which are not themselves derivative works of the Document.
 If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these copies of the Document, then if the Document is less than one half of the entire aggregate, the Document's Cover Texts may be placed on covers that bracket the Document within the aggregate, or the electronic equivalent of covers if the Document is in electronic form. Otherwise they must appear on printed covers that bracket the whole aggregate.
 Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may distribute translations of the Document under the terms of section 4. Replacing Invariant Sections with translations requires special permission from their copyright holders, but you may include translations of some or all Invariant Sections in addition to the original versions of these Invariant Sections. You may include a translation of this License, and all the license notices in the Document, and any Warranty Disclaimers, provided that you also include the original English version of this License and the original versions of those notices and disclaimers. In case of a disagreement between the translation and the original version of this License or a notice or disclaimer, the original version will prevail.
 If a section in the Document is Entitled "Acknowledgements", "Dedications", or "History", the requirement (section 4) to Preserve its Title (section 1) will typically require changing the actual title.
 You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute it is void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.
 However, if you cease all violation of this License, then your license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated (a) provisionally, unless and until the copyright holder explicitly and finally terminates your license, and (b) permanently, if the copyright holder fails to notify you of the violation by some reasonable means prior to 60 days after the cessation.
 Moreover, your license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated permanently if the copyright holder notifies you of the violation by some reasonable means, this is the first time you have received notice of violation of this License (for any work) from that copyright holder, and you cure the violation prior to 30 days after your receipt of the notice.
 Termination of your rights under this section does not terminate the licenses of parties who have received copies or rights from you under this License. If your rights have been terminated and not permanently reinstated, receipt of a copy of some or all of the same material does not give you any rights to use it.
 The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions of the GNU Free Documentation License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns. See  .
 Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version number. If the Document specifies that a particular numbered version of this License "or any later version" applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that specified version or of any later version that has been published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation. If the Document does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose any version ever published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation. If the Document specifies that a proxy can decide which future versions of this License can be used, that proxy's public statement of acceptance of a version permanently authorizes you to choose that version for the Document.
 "Massive Multiauthor Collaboration Site" (or "MMC Site") means any World Wide Web server that publishes copyrightable works and also provides prominent facilities for anybody to edit those works. A public wiki that anybody can edit is an example of such a server. A "Massive Multiauthor Collaboration" (or "MMC") contained in the site means any set of copyrightable works thus published on the MMC site.
 "CC-BY-SA" means the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 license published by Creative Commons Corporation, a not-for-profit corporation with a principal place of business in San Francisco, California, as well as future copyleft versions of that license published by that same organization.
 "Incorporate" means to publish or republish a Document, in whole or in part, as part of another Document.
 An MMC is "eligible for relicensing" if it is licensed under this License, and if all works that were first published under this License somewhere other than this MMC, and subsequently incorporated in whole or in part into the MMC, (1) had no cover texts or invariant sections, and (2) were thus incorporated prior to November 1, 2008.
 The operator of an MMC Site may republish an MMC contained in the site under CC-BY-SA on the same site at any time before August 1, 2009, provided the MMC is eligible for relicensing.
 To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of the License in the document and put the following copyright and license notices just after the title page:
 If you have Invariant Sections, Front-Cover Texts and Back-Cover Texts, replace the "with...Texts." line with this:
 If you have Invariant Sections without Cover Texts, or some other combination of the three, merge those two alternatives to suit the situation.
 If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we recommend releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of free software license, such as the GNU General Public License, to permit their use in free software.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personality_rights

Content: , sometimes referred to as the  , are rights for an individual to control the commercial use of their identity, such as name, image, likeness, or other unequivocal identifiers. They are generally considered as  , rather than  , and so the validity of personality rights of publicity may survive the death of the individual to varying degrees, depending on the jurisdiction.
 Personality rights are generally considered to consist of two types of rights: the right of publicity,  or the right to keep one's image and likeness from being commercially exploited without permission or contractual compensation, which is similar (but not identical) to the use of a  ; and the  , or the right to be left alone and not have one's personality represented publicly without permission. In   jurisdictions,   fall into the realm of the   of  . United States   has substantially extended this right.
 A commonly cited justification for this doctrine, from a policy standpoint, is the notion of   and the idea that every individual should have a right to control how their right of publicity is commercialized by a third party, if at all.  Often, though certainly not always, the motivation to engage in such commercialization is to help propel sales or visibility for a product or service, which usually amounts to some form of   (which in turn receives the  ).
 In contrast with   jurisdictions, most   jurisdictions have specific civil code provisions that protect an individual's image, personal data and other generally private information.  Exceptions have been carved out of these general, broad privacy rights when dealing with news and public figures. Thus, while it may violate an ordinary citizen's privacy to speak about their medical records, one is generally allowed to report on more intimate details in the lives of celebrities and politicians.
 Unlike most common law jurisdictions the personality rights in civil law are generally inheritable, thus one can make a claim against someone who invades the privacy of a deceased relative if the memory of their character is besmirched by such publication.
 Personality rights have developed out of   concepts of  ,   and intentional  .  Thus personality rights are, generally speaking, judge-made law, though there are   where some aspects of personality rights are statutory. In some jurisdictions, publicity rights and privacy rights are not clearly distinguished, and the term publicity right is generally used. In a publicity rights case the issue to decide is whether a significant section of the public would be misled into believing (incorrectly) that a commercial arrangement had been concluded between a   and a   under which the plaintiff agreed to the advertising involving the image or reputation of a famous person. The actionable misrepresentation requires a suggestion that the plaintiff has endorsed or licensed the defendant's products, or somehow can exercise control over those products. This is done by way of the   of  .
 The meaning of the law is best illustrated by principal cases on the subject.
 In Australia, false association or endorsement is actionable via the law of  , not a separate law of "right of personality". The   case  was a decision of the Supreme Court of New South Wales (both the first instance and appellate jurisdiction). The plaintiffs were   and they sued the defendant in passing off alleging it wrongfully published their photograph on the cover of a gramophone record entitled  . An injunction was granted on the ground that the use suggested the plaintiffs recommended or approved of the defendant's goods, or had some connection with the goods.
 However, in the 1988 case of  ,   , a well known Australian athlete, failed in his attempt to get a damages award after   used a photograph of him in action on a poster without his permission.  The judge held, in essence, that the poster depicted excellence in general rather than a particular person.
 The provinces of  ,  ,  , and   have enacted privacy legislation dealing with personality rights, which have the following traits: 
 Canadian common law recognizes a limited right to personality. It was first acknowledged in the 1971 Ontario decision of  , where the Court held that where a person has marketable value in their likeness and it has been used in a manner that suggests an endorsement of a product then there is grounds for an action in appropriation of personality. This right was later expanded upon in   (1977) where the Court held that the personality right included both image and name.
 In   (1998), the Ontario Court of Appeal concluded that simply writing   somebody, even for the purpose of generating a profit, does not constitute appropriation of personality.
 The general tort of appropriation of personality is still in development, but it is currently  being argued that it will be recognized in all common law provinces,  with certain characteristics: 
 In 1994, the new   introduced new provisions that enshrine the right to privacy as an attribute of personality: 
  Every person is the holder of personality rights, such as the right to life, the right to the inviolability and integrity of his person, and the right to the respect of his name, reputation and privacy. These rights are inalienable.
 ...
  The following acts, in particular, may be considered as invasions of the privacy of a person:
 In  , the   also affirmed that under Quebec's   privacy provisions, a photographer can take photographs in public places but may not publish the picture unless permission has been obtained from the subject, except where the subject appears in an incidental manner, or whose professional success depends on public opinion.  The relevant provisions of the   are:
   Every person has a right to the safeguard of his dignity, honour and reputation.
   Every person has a right to respect for his private life. Therefore, the following general characteristics may be drawn: 
 In  , people depicted in photographs can oppose their use in advertisements and their publication in magazines, even if it was taken in a public place. 
 In  , the   chapters 26 and 27, provides certain personality rights. The governmental Danish Data Protection Agency, has made a declaration regarding publication on the Internet of pictures taken of persons in a public area: 
 A portrait photograph is defined as a photograph, with the purpose of depicting one or more specific person(s). The personality rights however may be contracted for persons who are generally accepted as public persons.
 In  , personality rights are protected under article 9 of the French civil code.  While publicly known facts and images of public figures are not generally protected, use of someone's image or personal history has been held actionable under French law. The most famous case in recent history is perhaps the publication of the book on   called   in which Mitterrand's doctor published a book that not only revealed private facts about Mitterrand's life, but also revealed medical confidences protected by  .
 In  , personality rights are protected under the  , where the concept of an "absolute person of contemporary history" allows the depiction of individuals who are part of history but still gives them some protection of their rights of privacy outside the public sphere. A succinct statement of the German law can be found in the following judicial statement from the  : the general right of personality has been recognised in the case law of the German   since 1954 as a basic right constitutionally guaranteed by Articles 1 and 2 of the   and at the same time as an "other right" protected in civil law under § 823 (1) of the   (established case law since BGHZ 13, 334, 338 - readers' letters). It guarantees as against all the world the protection of human dignity and the right to free development of the personality. Special forms of manifestation of the general right of personality are the right to one's own picture (§§ 22 ff. of the  ) and the right to one's name (§ 12 of the BGB). They guarantee protection of the personality for the sphere regulated by them. 
 In addition to the general personality rights, there are special rules that forbid taking intimate pictures without consent (§ 184k  ), and that forbid taking pictures which violate the "most personal sphere" of those pictured (§ 201 StGB - in particular, photos of private situations such as inside the bedroom, and photos of helpless persons, such as accident victims). In contrast to the general rules about the right to one's image, these rules also apply to just taking images, not only to publishing them.
 In  , personality rights are protected under the "tutela geral da personalidade" on article 70 of the Portuguese Civil Code and, also, in article 17 of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic.
Some personality rights, like the right to image or honor are specifically typified in the civil code in the articles following the "tutela geral".
Specifically regarding image rights, article 79 of the Portuguese Civil Code states that an image of a person cannot be published or exposed without her consent, even after the person's death (in which case the consent is to be obtained from existing family or heirs). However, consent is not needed for public personalities when in their public roles, for use in scientific, didactic or cultural purposes, or when the image is produced in a public setting. However, if the image harms the honor, reputation or decorum of the person it cannot be reproduced or exposed without consent.
 The relevant Greek laws include 57 AK and 2472/1997. As regarding photography:
 The relevant Guernsey law was enacted on 3 December 2012 under the name of   and allows for the registration of a personality right, together with images associated with that personality. Images are widely defined and can be any number of personal attributes, such as likeness, mannerisms, gestures, voice, nickname etc.
 Personalities able to register fall into 5 categories, namely sole, joint, group, legal and fictional character. In addition, humans can be registered up to 100 years after the date of death, making the law very favourable for estate managers and trustees.
 In  , as in most other common law jurisdictions, there is no separate "personality right", and false association or endorsement is actionable under the law of passing off. The main case on this point relates to   singer/actor   and   over the allegedly unauthorized use of Lau's image on  ,  which has led to the observation that only limited personality rights exist in this jurisdiction. 
 In a 1994 case involving the estate of  , the   acknowledged a property right of personality which survived his death. 
 In October 2007,   duo   sued   for  3.7 million after the publisher's magazine   used photos of the duo on an article on dieting through dancing without their permission. The case was rejected by the  . In February 2012, the Supreme Court rejected the duo's appeal based on the right of publicity. 
 While the concept of Personality Rights is recognized, it is not yet widely known. The Korean terminology ("인격표지영리권", literally translated to "personality sign commercial rights") is still much less frequently used compared to the transcription of the English term "Publicity Rights".
 Nor any independent law on personality rights exist in South Korea (as of October 2023). However, in 2022, a related provision was enacted under the existing Unfair Competition Prevention Act.  This revision is considered to have provided a foundation for an independent Act in near future. Much change is expected as it has been reported that around 80% of Korean entertainment agencies voiced difficulties in publicity right violations of their talents. 
 On Dec. 26, 2022, the Ministry of Justice announced plans to stipulate Personality Rights in Civil Code in the near future. The most notable difference between the new law and the Publicity Rights provision under the Unfair Competition Prevention Act would be the expansion of scope; the new law will go beyond 'celebrities' and will recognize everyone's right to their name, portrait, voice, etc. 
 Personality rights are said to exist to some extent by both influence of constitution and tort liability,  but cases filed to enforce such rights against shopping malls have been unsuccessful. 
 South Korea's portrait rights are too widely recognized compared to other countries. Because of this, it is common for South Korean media reports to blur people's faces in press photos, even though there is no problem of defamation. In contrast, most countries regard blur as a distortion of the truth. It is common that the public's faces photographed only in the South Korean media are blurred even when there in no possibility of defamation. Criticism has been raised against this. 
 In the  , rights of personality are established by statute. According to article 100 and 101 of the   of the People's Republic of China, the right of name and the right of image are protected. It is prohibited to use another's image for commercial use without that person's consent. In the new Tort Liabilities Law which came into effect on Jan 1, 2021, the right of privacy is mentioned for the first time in the legislation. 
 There are few studies on the right to fame in Iranian law. However, through general principles, an attempt has been made to support celebrities. 
 In  , personality rights are protected under the   and the  , which also provides for   and  .  After much uncertainty concerning the recognition of image rights in  , the   provided clarity in the landmark case of  .  In South Africa, a person's right to identity is violated if the attributes of that person is used without permission in a way which cannot be reconciled with the true image of that person.  Apart from the unauthorized use of a person's image, this kind of infringement also entails some kind of misrepresentation concerning the individual, such as that the individual approves or endorses a particular product or service or that an attorney is a partner in a firm, while this is not the case.  Secondly, the right to identity is violated if the attributes of a person is used without authorization by another person for commercial gain.  Apart from the unauthorized use of the individual's image, such use also primarily entails a commercial motive which is exclusively aimed at promoting a service or product or to solicit clients or customers.  The mere fact that the user may benefit or profit from any product or service in respect of which the individual's attributes have incidentally been used, is not in itself sufficient.  This violation of the right to identity therefore also entails unauthorized use of the individual's attributes with a commercial purpose, whether it is done by means of advertisement or the manufacture and distribution of merchandise covered with the attributes of the individual. Personality rights are not absolute and it goes without saying that the use of a person's attributes must be unlawful before a plaintiff will succeed with any claim.  With the use of a person's image, the personality rights, privacy,   and   of the individual must often be weighed against the user's right to  .  The use of a person's image can be justified on the grounds of consent, truth and public interest, fair comment and jest. 
 According to the agency (Spanish) Data Protection for the collection and dissemination on Internet of images of a person without their consent may be a serious breach of the Data Protection Act which would be punishable by a minimum fine of 60,000 euros.  According to   Data Protection Agency decided to investigate ex officio by the mere distribution of the image of a person on the Internet without their consent. 
 In the United States, the right of publicity is a  –based right, as opposed to federal, and recognition of the right can vary from state to state.  The rationale underlying the right of publicity in the   is rooted in both privacy and economic exploitation.   The rights are based in tort law, and parallel Prosser's "Four Torts" which might be summarized as: 1) Intrusion upon physical solitude; 2) public disclosure of private facts; 3) depiction in a false light; and 4) appropriation of name and likeness.  If looking at it through the prism of Prosser's four torts, violation of a right of publicity most closely aligns with appropriation.  The right of publicity often is manifest in advertising or merchandise.  In states without a specific right of publicity statute, the right of publicity is usually recognized via common law.  The right of publicity has evolved rapidly, with a history of reported cases in the United States and worldwide. 
 The right of publicity is defined as the right of all individuals to control commercial use of their names, images, likenesses, or other identifying aspects of identity.  In certain contexts, the right of publicity is limited (under U.S. law) by the  . The right of publicity can be referred to as   or even  . The term "right of publicity" was coined by Judge   in 1953. 
 The extent of recognition of this right in the U.S. is largely driven by   or  . Because the right of publicity is primarily governed by state (as opposed to federal) law, the degree of recognition of the right of publicity can vary from one state to the next. The right of publicity is not simply an analog to trademark law, though it could be noted that the right of publicity has some commonality with the protection of trademarks as long as one understands that the right of publicity is a distinct legal doctrine, with its own policies, objectives and standards, including notable differences from trademark law.  For example, falsity or likelihood of confusion generally do not have to be established to present a colorable right of publicity claim.
 At a national level, the   held in the 1977 case   that the   did not   a   from liability for broadcasting  's   act without his consent. This was the first, and so far the only, U.S. Supreme Court ruling on rights of publicity and it served to confirm the overall validity of the doctrine and the interests it protects.
  has one of the stronger right of publicity statutes in the U.S., providing recognition of the right for 100 years after death, and protecting not only the usual "name, image and likeness", but also  ,  ,  , distinctive appearances, and mannerisms.  Notably, Oklahoma also provides 100 years of protection after death, and Tennessee's statute provides rights that do not ever expire if use is continuous. There are other notable characteristics of the Indiana law,  though most of the major movement in right of publicity emanates from   and  , with a significant body of case law which suggest potentially contradictory positions with respect to recognition of the right of publicity under certain circumstances.
 Some states recognize the right through statute and some others through common law. California has both statutory and common-law strains of authority protecting slightly different forms of the right. The right of publicity shares characteristics of a property right and as such is transferable to the person's heirs after their death. The   was passed in   in 1985 and it extended the personality rights for a celebrity to 70 years after their death. Previously, the 1979   decision by the   held that  's personality rights could not pass to his heirs. 
 California Civil Code Section 3344(a) states:


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Text_of_the_GNU_Free_Documentation_License

Content: 
 Version 1.3, 3 November 2008
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2002, 2007, 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc. < >
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.
 The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other functional and useful document "free" in the sense of freedom: to assure everyone the effective freedom to copy and redistribute it, with or without modifying it, either commercially or noncommercially. Secondarily, this License preserves for the author and publisher a way to get credit for their work, while not being considered responsible for modifications made by others.
 This License is a kind of "copyleft", which means that derivative works of the document must themselves be free in the same sense. It complements the GNU General Public License, which is a copyleft license designed for free software.
 We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for free software, because free software needs free documentation: a free program should come with manuals providing the same freedoms that the software does. But this License is not limited to software manuals; it can be used for any textual work, regardless of subject matter or whether it is published as a printed book. We recommend this License principally for works whose purpose is instruction or reference.
 This License applies to any manual or other work, in any medium, that contains a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it can be distributed under the terms of this License. Such a notice grants a world-wide, royalty-free license, unlimited in duration, to use that work under the conditions stated herein. The "Document", below, refers to any such manual or work. Any member of the public is a licensee, and is addressed as "you". You accept the license if you copy, modify or distribute the work in a way requiring permission under copyright law.
 A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the Document or a portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with modifications and/or translated into another language.
 A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front-matter section of the Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the publishers or authors of the Document to the Document's overall subject (or to related matters) and contains nothing that could fall directly within that overall subject. (Thus, if the Document is in part a textbook of mathematics, a Secondary Section may not explain any mathematics.) The relationship could be a matter of historical connection with the subject or with related matters, or of legal, commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position regarding them.
 The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose titles are designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the notice that says that the Document is released under this License. If a section does not fit the above definition of Secondary then it is not allowed to be designated as Invariant. The Document may contain zero Invariant Sections. If the Document does not identify any Invariant Sections then there are none.
 The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are listed, as Front-Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice that says that the Document is released under this License. A Front-Cover Text may be at most 5 words, and a Back-Cover Text may be at most 25 words.
 A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy, represented in a format whose specification is available to the general public, that is suitable for revising the document straightforwardly with generic text editors or (for images composed of pixels) generic paint programs or (for drawings) some widely available drawing editor, and that is suitable for input to text formatters or for automatic translation to a variety of formats suitable for input to text formatters. A copy made in an otherwise Transparent file format whose markup, or absence of markup, has been arranged to thwart or discourage subsequent modification by readers is not Transparent. An image format is not Transparent if used for any substantial amount of text. A copy that is not "Transparent" is called "Opaque".
 Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain ASCII without markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format, SGML or XML using a publicly available DTD, and standard-conforming simple HTML, PostScript or PDF designed for human modification. Examples of transparent image formats include PNG, XCF and JPG. Opaque formats include proprietary formats that can be read and edited only by proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for which the DTD and/or processing tools are not generally available, and the machine-generated HTML, PostScript or PDF produced by some word processors for output purposes only.
 The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself, plus such following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the material this License requires to appear in the title page. For works in formats which do not have any title page as such, "Title Page" means the text near the most prominent appearance of the work's title, preceding the beginning of the body of the text.
 The "publisher" means any person or entity that distributes copies of the Document to the public.
 A section "Entitled XYZ" means a named subunit of the Document whose title either is precisely XYZ or contains XYZ in parentheses following text that translates XYZ in another language. (Here XYZ stands for a specific section name mentioned below, such as "Acknowledgements", "Dedications", "Endorsements", or "History".) To "Preserve the Title" of such a section when you modify the Document means that it remains a section "Entitled XYZ" according to this definition.
 The Document may include Warranty Disclaimers next to the notice which states that this License applies to the Document. These Warranty Disclaimers are considered to be included by reference in this License, but only as regards disclaiming warranties: any other implication that these Warranty Disclaimers may have is void and has no effect on the meaning of this License.
 You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either commercially or noncommercially, provided that this License, the copyright notices, and the license notice saying this License applies to the Document are reproduced in all copies, and that you add no other conditions whatsoever to those of this License. You may not use technical measures to obstruct or control the reading or further copying of the copies you make or distribute. However, you may accept compensation in exchange for copies. If you distribute a large enough number of copies you must also follow the conditions in section 3.
 You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above, and you may publicly display copies.
 If you publish printed copies (or copies in media that commonly have printed covers) of the Document, numbering more than 100, and the Document's license notice requires Cover Texts, you must enclose the copies in covers that carry, clearly and legibly, all these Cover Texts: Front-Cover Texts on the front cover, and Back-Cover Texts on the back cover. Both covers must also clearly and legibly identify you as the publisher of these copies. The front cover must present the full title with all words of the title equally prominent and visible. You may add other material on the covers in addition. Copying with changes limited to the covers, as long as they preserve the title of the Document and satisfy these conditions, can be treated as verbatim copying in other respects.
 If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit legibly, you should put the first ones listed (as many as fit reasonably) on the actual cover, and continue the rest onto adjacent pages.
 If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document numbering more than 100, you must either include a machine-readable Transparent copy along with each Opaque copy, or state in or with each Opaque copy a computer-network location from which the general network-using public has access to download using public-standard network protocols a complete Transparent copy of the Document, free of added material. If you use the latter option, you must take reasonably prudent steps, when you begin distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure that this Transparent copy will remain thus accessible at the stated location until at least one year after the last time you distribute an Opaque copy (directly or through your agents or retailers) of that edition to the public.
 It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of the Document well before redistributing any large number of copies, to give them a chance to provide you with an updated version of the Document.
 You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document under the conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you release the Modified Version under precisely this License, with the Modified Version filling the role of the Document, thus licensing distribution and modification of the Modified Version to whoever possesses a copy of it. In addition, you must do these things in the Modified Version:
 If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or appendices that qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material copied from the Document, you may at your option designate some or all of these sections as invariant. To do this, add their titles to the list of Invariant Sections in the Modified Version's license notice. These titles must be distinct from any other section titles.
 You may add a section Entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains nothing but endorsements of your Modified Version by various parties—for example, statements of peer review or that the text has been approved by an organization as the authoritative definition of a standard.
 You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text, and a passage of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of the list of Cover Texts in the Modified Version. Only one passage of Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover Text may be added by (or through arrangements made by) any one entity. If the Document already includes a cover text for the same cover, previously added by you or by arrangement made by the same entity you are acting on behalf of, you may not add another; but you may replace the old one, on explicit permission from the previous publisher that added the old one.
 The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License give permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or imply endorsement of any Modified Version.
 You may combine the Document with other documents released under this License, under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified versions, provided that you include in the combination all of the Invariant Sections of all of the original documents, unmodified, and list them all as Invariant Sections of your combined work in its license notice, and that you preserve all their Warranty Disclaimers.
 The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and multiple identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single copy. If there are multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but different contents, make the title of each such section unique by adding at the end of it, in parentheses, the name of the original author or publisher of that section if known, or else a unique number. Make the same adjustment to the section titles in the list of Invariant Sections in the license notice of the combined work.
 In the combination, you must combine any sections Entitled "History" in the various original documents, forming one section Entitled "History"; likewise combine any sections Entitled "Acknowledgements", and any sections Entitled "Dedications". You must delete all sections Entitled "Endorsements".
 You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other documents released under this License, and replace the individual copies of this License in the various documents with a single copy that is included in the collection, provided that you follow the rules of this License for verbatim copying of each of the documents in all other respects.
 You may extract a single document from such a collection, and distribute it individually under this License, provided you insert a copy of this License into the extracted document, and follow this License in all other respects regarding verbatim copying of that document.
 A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate and independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or distribution medium, is called an "aggregate" if the copyright resulting from the compilation is not used to limit the legal rights of the compilation's users beyond what the individual works permit. When the Document is included in an aggregate, this License does not apply to the other works in the aggregate which are not themselves derivative works of the Document.
 If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these copies of the Document, then if the Document is less than one half of the entire aggregate, the Document's Cover Texts may be placed on covers that bracket the Document within the aggregate, or the electronic equivalent of covers if the Document is in electronic form. Otherwise they must appear on printed covers that bracket the whole aggregate.
 Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may distribute translations of the Document under the terms of section 4. Replacing Invariant Sections with translations requires special permission from their copyright holders, but you may include translations of some or all Invariant Sections in addition to the original versions of these Invariant Sections. You may include a translation of this License, and all the license notices in the Document, and any Warranty Disclaimers, provided that you also include the original English version of this License and the original versions of those notices and disclaimers. In case of a disagreement between the translation and the original version of this License or a notice or disclaimer, the original version will prevail.
 If a section in the Document is Entitled "Acknowledgements", "Dedications", or "History", the requirement (section 4) to Preserve its Title (section 1) will typically require changing the actual title.
 You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute it is void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.
 However, if you cease all violation of this License, then your license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated (a) provisionally, unless and until the copyright holder explicitly and finally terminates your license, and (b) permanently, if the copyright holder fails to notify you of the violation by some reasonable means prior to 60 days after the cessation.
 Moreover, your license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated permanently if the copyright holder notifies you of the violation by some reasonable means, this is the first time you have received notice of violation of this License (for any work) from that copyright holder, and you cure the violation prior to 30 days after your receipt of the notice.
 Termination of your rights under this section does not terminate the licenses of parties who have received copies or rights from you under this License. If your rights have been terminated and not permanently reinstated, receipt of a copy of some or all of the same material does not give you any rights to use it.
 The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions of the GNU Free Documentation License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns. See  .
 Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version number. If the Document specifies that a particular numbered version of this License "or any later version" applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that specified version or of any later version that has been published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation. If the Document does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose any version ever published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation. If the Document specifies that a proxy can decide which future versions of this License can be used, that proxy's public statement of acceptance of a version permanently authorizes you to choose that version for the Document.
 "Massive Multiauthor Collaboration Site" (or "MMC Site") means any World Wide Web server that publishes copyrightable works and also provides prominent facilities for anybody to edit those works. A public wiki that anybody can edit is an example of such a server. A "Massive Multiauthor Collaboration" (or "MMC") contained in the site means any set of copyrightable works thus published on the MMC site.
 "CC-BY-SA" means the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 license published by Creative Commons Corporation, a not-for-profit corporation with a principal place of business in San Francisco, California, as well as future copyleft versions of that license published by that same organization.
 "Incorporate" means to publish or republish a Document, in whole or in part, as part of another Document.
 An MMC is "eligible for relicensing" if it is licensed under this License, and if all works that were first published under this License somewhere other than this MMC, and subsequently incorporated in whole or in part into the MMC, (1) had no cover texts or invariant sections, and (2) were thus incorporated prior to November 1, 2008.
 The operator of an MMC Site may republish an MMC contained in the site under CC-BY-SA on the same site at any time before August 1, 2009, provided the MMC is eligible for relicensing.
 To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of the License in the document and put the following copyright and license notices just after the title page:
 If you have Invariant Sections, Front-Cover Texts and Back-Cover Texts, replace the "with...Texts." line with this:
 If you have Invariant Sections without Cover Texts, or some other combination of the three, merge those two alternatives to suit the situation.
 If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we recommend releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of free software license, such as the GNU General Public License, to permit their use in free software.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personality_rights

Content: , sometimes referred to as the  , are rights for an individual to control the commercial use of their identity, such as name, image, likeness, or other unequivocal identifiers. They are generally considered as  , rather than  , and so the validity of personality rights of publicity may survive the death of the individual to varying degrees, depending on the jurisdiction.
 Personality rights are generally considered to consist of two types of rights: the right of publicity,  or the right to keep one's image and likeness from being commercially exploited without permission or contractual compensation, which is similar (but not identical) to the use of a  ; and the  , or the right to be left alone and not have one's personality represented publicly without permission. In   jurisdictions,   fall into the realm of the   of  . United States   has substantially extended this right.
 A commonly cited justification for this doctrine, from a policy standpoint, is the notion of   and the idea that every individual should have a right to control how their right of publicity is commercialized by a third party, if at all.  Often, though certainly not always, the motivation to engage in such commercialization is to help propel sales or visibility for a product or service, which usually amounts to some form of   (which in turn receives the  ).
 In contrast with   jurisdictions, most   jurisdictions have specific civil code provisions that protect an individual's image, personal data and other generally private information.  Exceptions have been carved out of these general, broad privacy rights when dealing with news and public figures. Thus, while it may violate an ordinary citizen's privacy to speak about their medical records, one is generally allowed to report on more intimate details in the lives of celebrities and politicians.
 Unlike most common law jurisdictions the personality rights in civil law are generally inheritable, thus one can make a claim against someone who invades the privacy of a deceased relative if the memory of their character is besmirched by such publication.
 Personality rights have developed out of   concepts of  ,   and intentional  .  Thus personality rights are, generally speaking, judge-made law, though there are   where some aspects of personality rights are statutory. In some jurisdictions, publicity rights and privacy rights are not clearly distinguished, and the term publicity right is generally used. In a publicity rights case the issue to decide is whether a significant section of the public would be misled into believing (incorrectly) that a commercial arrangement had been concluded between a   and a   under which the plaintiff agreed to the advertising involving the image or reputation of a famous person. The actionable misrepresentation requires a suggestion that the plaintiff has endorsed or licensed the defendant's products, or somehow can exercise control over those products. This is done by way of the   of  .
 The meaning of the law is best illustrated by principal cases on the subject.
 In Australia, false association or endorsement is actionable via the law of  , not a separate law of "right of personality". The   case  was a decision of the Supreme Court of New South Wales (both the first instance and appellate jurisdiction). The plaintiffs were   and they sued the defendant in passing off alleging it wrongfully published their photograph on the cover of a gramophone record entitled  . An injunction was granted on the ground that the use suggested the plaintiffs recommended or approved of the defendant's goods, or had some connection with the goods.
 However, in the 1988 case of  ,   , a well known Australian athlete, failed in his attempt to get a damages award after   used a photograph of him in action on a poster without his permission.  The judge held, in essence, that the poster depicted excellence in general rather than a particular person.
 The provinces of  ,  ,  , and   have enacted privacy legislation dealing with personality rights, which have the following traits: 
 Canadian common law recognizes a limited right to personality. It was first acknowledged in the 1971 Ontario decision of  , where the Court held that where a person has marketable value in their likeness and it has been used in a manner that suggests an endorsement of a product then there is grounds for an action in appropriation of personality. This right was later expanded upon in   (1977) where the Court held that the personality right included both image and name.
 In   (1998), the Ontario Court of Appeal concluded that simply writing   somebody, even for the purpose of generating a profit, does not constitute appropriation of personality.
 The general tort of appropriation of personality is still in development, but it is currently  being argued that it will be recognized in all common law provinces,  with certain characteristics: 
 In 1994, the new   introduced new provisions that enshrine the right to privacy as an attribute of personality: 
  Every person is the holder of personality rights, such as the right to life, the right to the inviolability and integrity of his person, and the right to the respect of his name, reputation and privacy. These rights are inalienable.
 ...
  The following acts, in particular, may be considered as invasions of the privacy of a person:
 In  , the   also affirmed that under Quebec's   privacy provisions, a photographer can take photographs in public places but may not publish the picture unless permission has been obtained from the subject, except where the subject appears in an incidental manner, or whose professional success depends on public opinion.  The relevant provisions of the   are:
   Every person has a right to the safeguard of his dignity, honour and reputation.
   Every person has a right to respect for his private life. Therefore, the following general characteristics may be drawn: 
 In  , people depicted in photographs can oppose their use in advertisements and their publication in magazines, even if it was taken in a public place. 
 In  , the   chapters 26 and 27, provides certain personality rights. The governmental Danish Data Protection Agency, has made a declaration regarding publication on the Internet of pictures taken of persons in a public area: 
 A portrait photograph is defined as a photograph, with the purpose of depicting one or more specific person(s). The personality rights however may be contracted for persons who are generally accepted as public persons.
 In  , personality rights are protected under article 9 of the French civil code.  While publicly known facts and images of public figures are not generally protected, use of someone's image or personal history has been held actionable under French law. The most famous case in recent history is perhaps the publication of the book on   called   in which Mitterrand's doctor published a book that not only revealed private facts about Mitterrand's life, but also revealed medical confidences protected by  .
 In  , personality rights are protected under the  , where the concept of an "absolute person of contemporary history" allows the depiction of individuals who are part of history but still gives them some protection of their rights of privacy outside the public sphere. A succinct statement of the German law can be found in the following judicial statement from the  : the general right of personality has been recognised in the case law of the German   since 1954 as a basic right constitutionally guaranteed by Articles 1 and 2 of the   and at the same time as an "other right" protected in civil law under § 823 (1) of the   (established case law since BGHZ 13, 334, 338 - readers' letters). It guarantees as against all the world the protection of human dignity and the right to free development of the personality. Special forms of manifestation of the general right of personality are the right to one's own picture (§§ 22 ff. of the  ) and the right to one's name (§ 12 of the BGB). They guarantee protection of the personality for the sphere regulated by them. 
 In addition to the general personality rights, there are special rules that forbid taking intimate pictures without consent (§ 184k  ), and that forbid taking pictures which violate the "most personal sphere" of those pictured (§ 201 StGB - in particular, photos of private situations such as inside the bedroom, and photos of helpless persons, such as accident victims). In contrast to the general rules about the right to one's image, these rules also apply to just taking images, not only to publishing them.
 In  , personality rights are protected under the "tutela geral da personalidade" on article 70 of the Portuguese Civil Code and, also, in article 17 of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic.
Some personality rights, like the right to image or honor are specifically typified in the civil code in the articles following the "tutela geral".
Specifically regarding image rights, article 79 of the Portuguese Civil Code states that an image of a person cannot be published or exposed without her consent, even after the person's death (in which case the consent is to be obtained from existing family or heirs). However, consent is not needed for public personalities when in their public roles, for use in scientific, didactic or cultural purposes, or when the image is produced in a public setting. However, if the image harms the honor, reputation or decorum of the person it cannot be reproduced or exposed without consent.
 The relevant Greek laws include 57 AK and 2472/1997. As regarding photography:
 The relevant Guernsey law was enacted on 3 December 2012 under the name of   and allows for the registration of a personality right, together with images associated with that personality. Images are widely defined and can be any number of personal attributes, such as likeness, mannerisms, gestures, voice, nickname etc.
 Personalities able to register fall into 5 categories, namely sole, joint, group, legal and fictional character. In addition, humans can be registered up to 100 years after the date of death, making the law very favourable for estate managers and trustees.
 In  , as in most other common law jurisdictions, there is no separate "personality right", and false association or endorsement is actionable under the law of passing off. The main case on this point relates to   singer/actor   and   over the allegedly unauthorized use of Lau's image on  ,  which has led to the observation that only limited personality rights exist in this jurisdiction. 
 In a 1994 case involving the estate of  , the   acknowledged a property right of personality which survived his death. 
 In October 2007,   duo   sued   for  3.7 million after the publisher's magazine   used photos of the duo on an article on dieting through dancing without their permission. The case was rejected by the  . In February 2012, the Supreme Court rejected the duo's appeal based on the right of publicity. 
 While the concept of Personality Rights is recognized, it is not yet widely known. The Korean terminology ("인격표지영리권", literally translated to "personality sign commercial rights") is still much less frequently used compared to the transcription of the English term "Publicity Rights".
 Nor any independent law on personality rights exist in South Korea (as of October 2023). However, in 2022, a related provision was enacted under the existing Unfair Competition Prevention Act.  This revision is considered to have provided a foundation for an independent Act in near future. Much change is expected as it has been reported that around 80% of Korean entertainment agencies voiced difficulties in publicity right violations of their talents. 
 On Dec. 26, 2022, the Ministry of Justice announced plans to stipulate Personality Rights in Civil Code in the near future. The most notable difference between the new law and the Publicity Rights provision under the Unfair Competition Prevention Act would be the expansion of scope; the new law will go beyond 'celebrities' and will recognize everyone's right to their name, portrait, voice, etc. 
 Personality rights are said to exist to some extent by both influence of constitution and tort liability,  but cases filed to enforce such rights against shopping malls have been unsuccessful. 
 South Korea's portrait rights are too widely recognized compared to other countries. Because of this, it is common for South Korean media reports to blur people's faces in press photos, even though there is no problem of defamation. In contrast, most countries regard blur as a distortion of the truth. It is common that the public's faces photographed only in the South Korean media are blurred even when there in no possibility of defamation. Criticism has been raised against this. 
 In the  , rights of personality are established by statute. According to article 100 and 101 of the   of the People's Republic of China, the right of name and the right of image are protected. It is prohibited to use another's image for commercial use without that person's consent. In the new Tort Liabilities Law which came into effect on Jan 1, 2021, the right of privacy is mentioned for the first time in the legislation. 
 There are few studies on the right to fame in Iranian law. However, through general principles, an attempt has been made to support celebrities. 
 In  , personality rights are protected under the   and the  , which also provides for   and  .  After much uncertainty concerning the recognition of image rights in  , the   provided clarity in the landmark case of  .  In South Africa, a person's right to identity is violated if the attributes of that person is used without permission in a way which cannot be reconciled with the true image of that person.  Apart from the unauthorized use of a person's image, this kind of infringement also entails some kind of misrepresentation concerning the individual, such as that the individual approves or endorses a particular product or service or that an attorney is a partner in a firm, while this is not the case.  Secondly, the right to identity is violated if the attributes of a person is used without authorization by another person for commercial gain.  Apart from the unauthorized use of the individual's image, such use also primarily entails a commercial motive which is exclusively aimed at promoting a service or product or to solicit clients or customers.  The mere fact that the user may benefit or profit from any product or service in respect of which the individual's attributes have incidentally been used, is not in itself sufficient.  This violation of the right to identity therefore also entails unauthorized use of the individual's attributes with a commercial purpose, whether it is done by means of advertisement or the manufacture and distribution of merchandise covered with the attributes of the individual. Personality rights are not absolute and it goes without saying that the use of a person's attributes must be unlawful before a plaintiff will succeed with any claim.  With the use of a person's image, the personality rights, privacy,   and   of the individual must often be weighed against the user's right to  .  The use of a person's image can be justified on the grounds of consent, truth and public interest, fair comment and jest. 
 According to the agency (Spanish) Data Protection for the collection and dissemination on Internet of images of a person without their consent may be a serious breach of the Data Protection Act which would be punishable by a minimum fine of 60,000 euros.  According to   Data Protection Agency decided to investigate ex officio by the mere distribution of the image of a person on the Internet without their consent. 
 In the United States, the right of publicity is a  –based right, as opposed to federal, and recognition of the right can vary from state to state.  The rationale underlying the right of publicity in the   is rooted in both privacy and economic exploitation.   The rights are based in tort law, and parallel Prosser's "Four Torts" which might be summarized as: 1) Intrusion upon physical solitude; 2) public disclosure of private facts; 3) depiction in a false light; and 4) appropriation of name and likeness.  If looking at it through the prism of Prosser's four torts, violation of a right of publicity most closely aligns with appropriation.  The right of publicity often is manifest in advertising or merchandise.  In states without a specific right of publicity statute, the right of publicity is usually recognized via common law.  The right of publicity has evolved rapidly, with a history of reported cases in the United States and worldwide. 
 The right of publicity is defined as the right of all individuals to control commercial use of their names, images, likenesses, or other identifying aspects of identity.  In certain contexts, the right of publicity is limited (under U.S. law) by the  . The right of publicity can be referred to as   or even  . The term "right of publicity" was coined by Judge   in 1953. 
 The extent of recognition of this right in the U.S. is largely driven by   or  . Because the right of publicity is primarily governed by state (as opposed to federal) law, the degree of recognition of the right of publicity can vary from one state to the next. The right of publicity is not simply an analog to trademark law, though it could be noted that the right of publicity has some commonality with the protection of trademarks as long as one understands that the right of publicity is a distinct legal doctrine, with its own policies, objectives and standards, including notable differences from trademark law.  For example, falsity or likelihood of confusion generally do not have to be established to present a colorable right of publicity claim.
 At a national level, the   held in the 1977 case   that the   did not   a   from liability for broadcasting  's   act without his consent. This was the first, and so far the only, U.S. Supreme Court ruling on rights of publicity and it served to confirm the overall validity of the doctrine and the interests it protects.
  has one of the stronger right of publicity statutes in the U.S., providing recognition of the right for 100 years after death, and protecting not only the usual "name, image and likeness", but also  ,  ,  , distinctive appearances, and mannerisms.  Notably, Oklahoma also provides 100 years of protection after death, and Tennessee's statute provides rights that do not ever expire if use is continuous. There are other notable characteristics of the Indiana law,  though most of the major movement in right of publicity emanates from   and  , with a significant body of case law which suggest potentially contradictory positions with respect to recognition of the right of publicity under certain circumstances.
 Some states recognize the right through statute and some others through common law. California has both statutory and common-law strains of authority protecting slightly different forms of the right. The right of publicity shares characteristics of a property right and as such is transferable to the person's heirs after their death. The   was passed in   in 1985 and it extended the personality rights for a celebrity to 70 years after their death. Previously, the 1979   decision by the   held that  's personality rights could not pass to his heirs. 
 California Civil Code Section 3344(a) states:


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Featured_articles

Content:  
 
 
 Featured articles are considered to be some of the best articles Wikipedia has to offer, as determined by  . They are used by editors as examples for writing other articles. Before being listed here, articles are reviewed as   for accuracy, neutrality, completeness, and style according to our  . Many featured articles were previously   (which are reviewed with a less restrictive set of criteria).
There are   featured articles out of   articles on the English Wikipedia (about  0.1% or one out of every 1,050 articles). Articles that no longer meet the criteria can be proposed for improvement or removal at  .
 On non-mobile versions of our website, a small bronze star icon ( ) on the top right corner of an article's page indicates that the article is featured. On most smartphones and tablets you can also select "Desktop" at the very bottom of the page  or "Request Desktop Site" in your browser's menu to see this line (do a search to find out how). Additionally, if the current article is featured in another language, a yellow star will appear next to the corresponding entry in the language switcher to let you know.
  
  
 
 :
 
 Biographies are in sub-topics according to the larger topics
 
 Today's featured article:  
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
 
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
" " 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  is available. See also   and  .


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Featured_articles

Content:  
 
 
 Featured articles are considered to be some of the best articles Wikipedia has to offer, as determined by  . They are used by editors as examples for writing other articles. Before being listed here, articles are reviewed as   for accuracy, neutrality, completeness, and style according to our  . Many featured articles were previously   (which are reviewed with a less restrictive set of criteria).
There are   featured articles out of   articles on the English Wikipedia (about  0.1% or one out of every 1,050 articles). Articles that no longer meet the criteria can be proposed for improvement or removal at  .
 On non-mobile versions of our website, a small bronze star icon ( ) on the top right corner of an article's page indicates that the article is featured. On most smartphones and tablets you can also select "Desktop" at the very bottom of the page  or "Request Desktop Site" in your browser's menu to see this line (do a search to find out how). Additionally, if the current article is featured in another language, a yellow star will appear next to the corresponding entry in the language switcher to let you know.
  
  
 
 :
 
 Biographies are in sub-topics according to the larger topics
 
 Today's featured article:  
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
 
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
" " 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  is available. See also   and  .


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Text_of_the_GNU_Free_Documentation_License

Content: 
 Version 1.3, 3 November 2008
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2002, 2007, 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc. < >
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.
 The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other functional and useful document "free" in the sense of freedom: to assure everyone the effective freedom to copy and redistribute it, with or without modifying it, either commercially or noncommercially. Secondarily, this License preserves for the author and publisher a way to get credit for their work, while not being considered responsible for modifications made by others.
 This License is a kind of "copyleft", which means that derivative works of the document must themselves be free in the same sense. It complements the GNU General Public License, which is a copyleft license designed for free software.
 We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for free software, because free software needs free documentation: a free program should come with manuals providing the same freedoms that the software does. But this License is not limited to software manuals; it can be used for any textual work, regardless of subject matter or whether it is published as a printed book. We recommend this License principally for works whose purpose is instruction or reference.
 This License applies to any manual or other work, in any medium, that contains a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it can be distributed under the terms of this License. Such a notice grants a world-wide, royalty-free license, unlimited in duration, to use that work under the conditions stated herein. The "Document", below, refers to any such manual or work. Any member of the public is a licensee, and is addressed as "you". You accept the license if you copy, modify or distribute the work in a way requiring permission under copyright law.
 A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the Document or a portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with modifications and/or translated into another language.
 A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front-matter section of the Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the publishers or authors of the Document to the Document's overall subject (or to related matters) and contains nothing that could fall directly within that overall subject. (Thus, if the Document is in part a textbook of mathematics, a Secondary Section may not explain any mathematics.) The relationship could be a matter of historical connection with the subject or with related matters, or of legal, commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position regarding them.
 The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose titles are designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the notice that says that the Document is released under this License. If a section does not fit the above definition of Secondary then it is not allowed to be designated as Invariant. The Document may contain zero Invariant Sections. If the Document does not identify any Invariant Sections then there are none.
 The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are listed, as Front-Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice that says that the Document is released under this License. A Front-Cover Text may be at most 5 words, and a Back-Cover Text may be at most 25 words.
 A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy, represented in a format whose specification is available to the general public, that is suitable for revising the document straightforwardly with generic text editors or (for images composed of pixels) generic paint programs or (for drawings) some widely available drawing editor, and that is suitable for input to text formatters or for automatic translation to a variety of formats suitable for input to text formatters. A copy made in an otherwise Transparent file format whose markup, or absence of markup, has been arranged to thwart or discourage subsequent modification by readers is not Transparent. An image format is not Transparent if used for any substantial amount of text. A copy that is not "Transparent" is called "Opaque".
 Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain ASCII without markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format, SGML or XML using a publicly available DTD, and standard-conforming simple HTML, PostScript or PDF designed for human modification. Examples of transparent image formats include PNG, XCF and JPG. Opaque formats include proprietary formats that can be read and edited only by proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for which the DTD and/or processing tools are not generally available, and the machine-generated HTML, PostScript or PDF produced by some word processors for output purposes only.
 The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself, plus such following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the material this License requires to appear in the title page. For works in formats which do not have any title page as such, "Title Page" means the text near the most prominent appearance of the work's title, preceding the beginning of the body of the text.
 The "publisher" means any person or entity that distributes copies of the Document to the public.
 A section "Entitled XYZ" means a named subunit of the Document whose title either is precisely XYZ or contains XYZ in parentheses following text that translates XYZ in another language. (Here XYZ stands for a specific section name mentioned below, such as "Acknowledgements", "Dedications", "Endorsements", or "History".) To "Preserve the Title" of such a section when you modify the Document means that it remains a section "Entitled XYZ" according to this definition.
 The Document may include Warranty Disclaimers next to the notice which states that this License applies to the Document. These Warranty Disclaimers are considered to be included by reference in this License, but only as regards disclaiming warranties: any other implication that these Warranty Disclaimers may have is void and has no effect on the meaning of this License.
 You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either commercially or noncommercially, provided that this License, the copyright notices, and the license notice saying this License applies to the Document are reproduced in all copies, and that you add no other conditions whatsoever to those of this License. You may not use technical measures to obstruct or control the reading or further copying of the copies you make or distribute. However, you may accept compensation in exchange for copies. If you distribute a large enough number of copies you must also follow the conditions in section 3.
 You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above, and you may publicly display copies.
 If you publish printed copies (or copies in media that commonly have printed covers) of the Document, numbering more than 100, and the Document's license notice requires Cover Texts, you must enclose the copies in covers that carry, clearly and legibly, all these Cover Texts: Front-Cover Texts on the front cover, and Back-Cover Texts on the back cover. Both covers must also clearly and legibly identify you as the publisher of these copies. The front cover must present the full title with all words of the title equally prominent and visible. You may add other material on the covers in addition. Copying with changes limited to the covers, as long as they preserve the title of the Document and satisfy these conditions, can be treated as verbatim copying in other respects.
 If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit legibly, you should put the first ones listed (as many as fit reasonably) on the actual cover, and continue the rest onto adjacent pages.
 If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document numbering more than 100, you must either include a machine-readable Transparent copy along with each Opaque copy, or state in or with each Opaque copy a computer-network location from which the general network-using public has access to download using public-standard network protocols a complete Transparent copy of the Document, free of added material. If you use the latter option, you must take reasonably prudent steps, when you begin distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure that this Transparent copy will remain thus accessible at the stated location until at least one year after the last time you distribute an Opaque copy (directly or through your agents or retailers) of that edition to the public.
 It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of the Document well before redistributing any large number of copies, to give them a chance to provide you with an updated version of the Document.
 You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document under the conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you release the Modified Version under precisely this License, with the Modified Version filling the role of the Document, thus licensing distribution and modification of the Modified Version to whoever possesses a copy of it. In addition, you must do these things in the Modified Version:
 If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or appendices that qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material copied from the Document, you may at your option designate some or all of these sections as invariant. To do this, add their titles to the list of Invariant Sections in the Modified Version's license notice. These titles must be distinct from any other section titles.
 You may add a section Entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains nothing but endorsements of your Modified Version by various parties—for example, statements of peer review or that the text has been approved by an organization as the authoritative definition of a standard.
 You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text, and a passage of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of the list of Cover Texts in the Modified Version. Only one passage of Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover Text may be added by (or through arrangements made by) any one entity. If the Document already includes a cover text for the same cover, previously added by you or by arrangement made by the same entity you are acting on behalf of, you may not add another; but you may replace the old one, on explicit permission from the previous publisher that added the old one.
 The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License give permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or imply endorsement of any Modified Version.
 You may combine the Document with other documents released under this License, under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified versions, provided that you include in the combination all of the Invariant Sections of all of the original documents, unmodified, and list them all as Invariant Sections of your combined work in its license notice, and that you preserve all their Warranty Disclaimers.
 The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and multiple identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single copy. If there are multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but different contents, make the title of each such section unique by adding at the end of it, in parentheses, the name of the original author or publisher of that section if known, or else a unique number. Make the same adjustment to the section titles in the list of Invariant Sections in the license notice of the combined work.
 In the combination, you must combine any sections Entitled "History" in the various original documents, forming one section Entitled "History"; likewise combine any sections Entitled "Acknowledgements", and any sections Entitled "Dedications". You must delete all sections Entitled "Endorsements".
 You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other documents released under this License, and replace the individual copies of this License in the various documents with a single copy that is included in the collection, provided that you follow the rules of this License for verbatim copying of each of the documents in all other respects.
 You may extract a single document from such a collection, and distribute it individually under this License, provided you insert a copy of this License into the extracted document, and follow this License in all other respects regarding verbatim copying of that document.
 A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate and independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or distribution medium, is called an "aggregate" if the copyright resulting from the compilation is not used to limit the legal rights of the compilation's users beyond what the individual works permit. When the Document is included in an aggregate, this License does not apply to the other works in the aggregate which are not themselves derivative works of the Document.
 If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these copies of the Document, then if the Document is less than one half of the entire aggregate, the Document's Cover Texts may be placed on covers that bracket the Document within the aggregate, or the electronic equivalent of covers if the Document is in electronic form. Otherwise they must appear on printed covers that bracket the whole aggregate.
 Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may distribute translations of the Document under the terms of section 4. Replacing Invariant Sections with translations requires special permission from their copyright holders, but you may include translations of some or all Invariant Sections in addition to the original versions of these Invariant Sections. You may include a translation of this License, and all the license notices in the Document, and any Warranty Disclaimers, provided that you also include the original English version of this License and the original versions of those notices and disclaimers. In case of a disagreement between the translation and the original version of this License or a notice or disclaimer, the original version will prevail.
 If a section in the Document is Entitled "Acknowledgements", "Dedications", or "History", the requirement (section 4) to Preserve its Title (section 1) will typically require changing the actual title.
 You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute it is void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.
 However, if you cease all violation of this License, then your license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated (a) provisionally, unless and until the copyright holder explicitly and finally terminates your license, and (b) permanently, if the copyright holder fails to notify you of the violation by some reasonable means prior to 60 days after the cessation.
 Moreover, your license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated permanently if the copyright holder notifies you of the violation by some reasonable means, this is the first time you have received notice of violation of this License (for any work) from that copyright holder, and you cure the violation prior to 30 days after your receipt of the notice.
 Termination of your rights under this section does not terminate the licenses of parties who have received copies or rights from you under this License. If your rights have been terminated and not permanently reinstated, receipt of a copy of some or all of the same material does not give you any rights to use it.
 The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions of the GNU Free Documentation License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns. See  .
 Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version number. If the Document specifies that a particular numbered version of this License "or any later version" applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that specified version or of any later version that has been published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation. If the Document does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose any version ever published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation. If the Document specifies that a proxy can decide which future versions of this License can be used, that proxy's public statement of acceptance of a version permanently authorizes you to choose that version for the Document.
 "Massive Multiauthor Collaboration Site" (or "MMC Site") means any World Wide Web server that publishes copyrightable works and also provides prominent facilities for anybody to edit those works. A public wiki that anybody can edit is an example of such a server. A "Massive Multiauthor Collaboration" (or "MMC") contained in the site means any set of copyrightable works thus published on the MMC site.
 "CC-BY-SA" means the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 license published by Creative Commons Corporation, a not-for-profit corporation with a principal place of business in San Francisco, California, as well as future copyleft versions of that license published by that same organization.
 "Incorporate" means to publish or republish a Document, in whole or in part, as part of another Document.
 An MMC is "eligible for relicensing" if it is licensed under this License, and if all works that were first published under this License somewhere other than this MMC, and subsequently incorporated in whole or in part into the MMC, (1) had no cover texts or invariant sections, and (2) were thus incorporated prior to November 1, 2008.
 The operator of an MMC Site may republish an MMC contained in the site under CC-BY-SA on the same site at any time before August 1, 2009, provided the MMC is eligible for relicensing.
 To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of the License in the document and put the following copyright and license notices just after the title page:
 If you have Invariant Sections, Front-Cover Texts and Back-Cover Texts, replace the "with...Texts." line with this:
 If you have Invariant Sections without Cover Texts, or some other combination of the three, merge those two alternatives to suit the situation.
 If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we recommend releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of free software license, such as the GNU General Public License, to permit their use in free software.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Peer_review

Content: Wikipedia's   process is a feature where an editor can receive feedback from others on how to improve an article they are working on, or receive advice about a specific issue queried by the editor. The process helps users find ways for improvement that they themselves didn't pick up on. Compared to the real-world   process, where experts themselves take part in reviewing the work of another, the majority of the volunteers here, like most editors in Wikipedia, lack expertise in the subject at hand. This is a good thing—it can make   worded articles more accessible to the average reader. Those looking for expert input should consider contacting editors on the  , or contacting a relevant  .
 To  , see the  . Nominators are limited to one review at a time, and are encouraged to help reduce the backlog by commenting on other reviews. Any editor may comment on a review, and there is no requirement that any comment be acted on. Editors and nominators may both edit articles during the discussion.
 A  , with reviewers' comments included, can be found  . For easier navigation, a list of peer reviews, without the reviews themselves included, can be found  . A chronological peer reviews list can be found  . 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because...ga, agh, why not? any comments, missing info, errors, discrepancies, etcetera? thanks.
 Thanks,   ( ) 12:14, 19 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I want to eventually nominate it for GA status. It will be one step closer to achieving the Good Topic listed at  .
 Thanks,     00:09, 19 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 I've listed this article for peer review because I am debating on whether or not to bring it through the   process. I completely rewrote the article, but I am frankly unsure of the prose. I have been looking at it for so long now that I would appreciate any feedback and advice on if it is even remotely ready for a FAC. I am primarily concerned with the prose for the "Analysis" section in particular.
 I am pinging   as they were a great help for the  . I will leave this peer review open for a few months (ideally if there is enough commentary to support that amount of time) to avoid rushing anything and to make sure I give this the amount of time it needs. 
 Thank you in advance. I really do appreciate any help to better improve this article. To be clear, I would completely understand if it is determined that this would not be ready for a FAC.   ( ) 18:15, 17 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've been working on this article for a few months trying to get it as quality as possible, and I've come to sort of a standstill after scouring all the sources I could find, so I wanted to get outside voices. Ideally I want to try to get this up to GA status if possible, but I don't think it's quite ready for a GA nom yet, so I wanted to get feedback on preparing it for that.
 Thanks,   ( ) 09:20, 15 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because...GA attempt. typos, malformed ideas, anythihng that needs pointing out (besides more external sources for music ig) please do.
 Thanks,   ( ) 15:31, 13 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because it was recommended at the failed  . When it was demoted at   the review mentioned both "unattributed opinion" and "uncited text" as well as MOS concerns. Please point out any remaining problems from either of those two reviews and help me address them. I believe I have addressed the image issues.
 Thanks,     07:24, 26 October 2023 (UTC) 
 P.S. Be advised that I intend to pursue   and   for this article.--    09:41, 26 October 2023 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I has been significantly contributing this article and now, despite of the start class assignment, I'm stuck of ideas to do, I has expand every sections, remove some un-needed stuff such as list of glitches and differences between different versions. This game from the   may not have a good impact or else but I just wanted to read your ideas for this article so Thanks,   ( ) 8:10, 23 March 2024 (UTC)
 
 
This is currently at GAN, but I am also listing it here because my ultimate goal is to get this to FAC within the next couple months, and I recently learned that a pre-FAC peer review can take place at the same time as a GAN.   (he/him •   •  ) 01:03, 3 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 Requesting this peer review to seek input from readers external to   on the standard of writing in the article. Whilst I will continue to work on copyediting and concision, it would be great to seek other perspectives on how this article could be improved. I am looking to develop this article to an FA standard which is a new process for me. Thanks!   ( ) 03:43, 20 February 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
Back at peer review after this article has passed a GAN — I plan to take it to FAC later this year. However, as an inexperienced nominator at FAC, I'd sincerely appreciate some more detailed feedback regarding   compliance and the  . I look forward to hearing your comments!   ( ) 05:02, 17 February 2024 (UTC) 
 Nice.
  20:16, 18 February 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because it is the first article I have worked on significantly, and would like to improve it further, preferably to GA in the very long term. The school has historical significance due to it's age (and origination of other schools from it) and the list of student, many of which are significant to german civil society as a whole. I am particularly looking for feedback on structure and sourcing, but content feedback would also be great.
 Thanks,   ( ) 10:05, 19 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because, having spent over two years refining its prose and references and being a significant contributor, I believe that receiving suggestions to enhance the article to FA-class status would be immensely valuable. Gates played a pioneering role in the microcomputer revolution of the 1970s and 1980s. Additionally, he oversees the world's largest private charitable foundation. I look forward to collaborating with the community to enhance the article and elevate its overall quality.
 Thanks,   ( ) 15:33, 18 April 2024 (UTC) 
 Up to  :
 
 
 
This is still a bit of a work in progress, but heading towards   at some point.  If you've ever listened to a radio broadcast, the antenna that transmitted the signal was probably using a special type of transformer invented by Austin.  This article is your chance to learn about a neat bit of technology which has touched your life but you never knew existed, and about the person who invented it.
Thanks,     17:16, 15 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review to get some comments and feedback for the purpose of a Featured article review. 
Thanks,   ( ) 01:28, 14 March 2024 (UTC) 
  I recently reviewed this for GAN, so I wanted to give my thoughts here while they were fresh in my mind:
 I suggest looking at  , a recently promoted featured article about an aviation disaster, for ideas on how your article should be formatted and sourced. I hope this helps.   ( ) 02:23, 14 March 2024 (UTC) 
 I agree with   about the sources, but I'll go a bit further than he did (and my apologies in advance in this reads harshly).  This is overwhelmingly sourced to a single source (the ATSB report), and it's a   source at that.  Of the remaining sources, Johnson and Wong 404's, three others are human-interest biographies of the crew that died which say nothing about the crash which isn't just cherry-picking facts from the ATSB report.  The BBC article is a routine news report from the day of the crash.  There's zero secondary sources that go into any significant detail about the crash, leading me to wonder if this even meets   based on the sources presented.
 Aviation fire fighting is a dangerous business and sadly, crashes happen.  The aircraft involved was an aging transport plane that had been retrofitted for fire fighting, which is true of most planes used in this type of service.  They were flying low-level runs in crappy conditions; again typical of this type of operation.  The probable cause (an unrecoverable low-altitude stall due to wind shear) is also, sadly, not unusual.  What makes this crash special?  But, more importantly, other that the ATSB report and a handful of news articles which just rehash what the ATSB said, what significant coverage of this has there been?     14:24, 16 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I am looking for wider consensus on how images should be laid out in such smaller articles. Compare the   to the   - does the article need that many images to go into detail about windscreens and bus rears? A number of UK bus articles have had images shifted around or removed and replaced entirely over the past year, which has caused some contention within the UK side of  , so opinions neutral to the WikiProject would be gladly appreciated.
 Thanks,   ( ) 15:53, 18 February 2024 (UTC) 
  I'm not sure if it might be just me or something, but when I read on   at the normal 100% size, the image arrangement is, well,  . In this screenshot "The" word (pun intended) is...there, and the rest of the passage does not get seen until after the First Hampshire&Dorset picture ( ). Like I said, it might just be me, and shrinking the page to 75% for example helps, but I just felt I needed to point that out because it really does not look very good. In my opinion this needs a cleanup in terms of image placement regardless of whether it's a bus article or not.   14:30, 19 February 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because there is a lot of work to be done. The page needs rewriting and heavy editing. I would like to have some outside perspective on how to do so.
 Thanks,   ( ) 18:32, 9 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
Recently, I've considerably expanding this BLP, aiming to elevate it to GA status, especially given the significance of the individual as Pakistan's first-ever female chief minister. I've substantially expanded the political career section, but I like  to ensure that the content aligns with WP:BLP standards. I welcome any feedback or suggestions on areas that still need improvement so that I can continue to refine the article. Thank you.   ( ) 19:02, 13 March 2024 (UTC) 
 I hope this helps.   ( ) 20:22, 15 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review to insure the comprehensiveness and accuracy of this article.
 Thanks,   ( ) 17:19, 18 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
Thanks @SouthParkFan65 I think this article is close to being GA nomination worthy. I will will review it with that in mind. I have not yet gone through the sources and that will be my next step after getting to some of these writing comments. 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I simply wish to see what could be improved!  
 Cheers to all,   ( ) 05:00, 2 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 I've proposed the article for peer review with the hopes that it could potentially pass   standards. My main concern, however, is that the lead is probably too short for standards, and the article might need copyediting from a more experienced user to bring it in line with the manual of style. 
 Many thanks,   ( ) 09:32, 2 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because the article needs to be assessed and rated in relevant  
Thanks,   ( ) 15:07, 18 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
Though I do not really have ambitions for FA , your feedback will still be very much welcome, and let's treat it with the potential FA nomination in mind if some mentor wants to take it more seriously.
 The article is largely, though not uniquely, a translation of the French FA article about a seaside resort in Northern France. Of course, French FA is not transferrable to en.wiki, and I'm not aware of French FA criteria but it wouldn't pass today's en.wiki criteria, but still the article is good and I used it to make a better version of it. I reorganised it so that it reads better, and also I added a couple paragraphs missing from the French version (for example, history during WWII), and did not mention a couple of others (like the list of films in which pictures were shot in Le Touquet, as sourced to IMDb). I basically omitted the "In popular culture" and "Notable people" sections. There are a couple of unsourced sentences in the article I marked, but I am resolving these issues at   and with the author of the French article, I know it's not right, look at other stuff.
 In short, any grammar, syntax errors, maybe some omissions that I may have made, or maybe you believe some passages are clinical signs of  , or just small typos - let me know if something is wrong, I will correct it, or explain why I believe this is right.
 Thanks,   ( ) 23:26, 18 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
I'd like to know if this article has GA possibilities, and what would need to be done to make it eligible. 
Thanks,   ( ) 20:00, 18 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because   holds immense importance as the heir apparent to the British throne. His role in the monarchy is pivotal, and any information about him directly impacts the perception of the royal family.
The article provides insights into his life, upbringing, education, and public image. Understanding these aspects is crucial for readers interested in British royalty and contemporary monarchy. As the next in line for the throne, this article has immense significance. 
 The monarchy evolves, and so does Prince William’s role. An FA article remains current. FAs uphold rigorous citation standards. I hope peer reviewers will help us to verify the article's accuracy. Both I and   have been considering an FA-status for the article for long and we believe its time we initiated a peer review. Looking forward to comments from other users. 
Thanks,   ( ) and   ( ) 07:51, 31 March 2024 (UTC) 
  I'll focus on the coverage of his military service, though my comments are limited as this material looks good:
 
 
Hello there, With the aim to identify any more areas that this article needs or may be improved upon before It is nominated for a good article nomination, especially when this is my first time, I have put it up for peer review...
 Thanks,   ( ) 09:38, 25 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I plan to take a stab at a FA in a few months.
Thanks,   ( ) 14:05, 6 March 2024 (UTC) 
 The below, fairly disorganised, but with FAC in mind.
 It is evident that from an in-depth review of the infobox and lead alone, and a cursory glance at the rest of the article, that significant work is needed. Ping me if you want more comments.   ( ) 16:29, 2 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I am looking for both general and specific feedback to further improve the article after the major revisions in the past two years. My intent is to get the article into a suitable state for a GA / A-Class / FA nomination. 
 Thanks,   ( ) 23:53, 16 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I want to prepare it for FAC. This is an important article.
 Thanks,   ( ) 13:55, 15 April 2024 (UTC) 
 This is an excellent article, a note I have is that, when it says "Tigers may kill and even prey on other predators they coexist with." The sentence could potentially imply that preying on other predators is somehow more significant than killing them. That's all I have.   10:32, 21 April 2024 (UTC) 
 We want to address a few points regarding this article. Firstly, there are numerous grammatical errors. In the course of our investigation, we discovered 288 instances of ungrammatical text. For example, while being written in British English, the term "recognized" appears twice in the text. Although we would prefer not to overburden you with a list, we will gladly comply if that is what you demand. Second, there are far too many numbers in the social spacing area for any practical purpose. In all honesty, I have no idea why there are so many numbers. Please arrange things. Third, what is the purpose of including a picture of a toy in this article? Use the better photographs that are available.
 One last thing, do tigers live 26 years in the wild or in captivity? The typical lifespan should be included as well; this is crucial information. And why is "endangered" written in caps?      16:05, 22 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
I've been looking at this article and considering a Featured Article nomination soon. Before this, I'd like for this article to be peer-reviewed. Thanks! :) ~     ( ,  !) 23:05, 27 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I am thinking about taking it to FAC.
 Thanks,   (  21:02, 20 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because after cleaning up all the maintenance templates I've found that the quality is all over the place. I would like to have someone else's eyes on it to see if there are redundant sections or obvious problems that I missed; ideally, I'd like to promote this to GA in the future.
 Thanks,   18:29, 20 March 2024 (UTC) 
 I noticed this on a list of articles requesting peer review and swung by just out of curiosity. I have no subject-specific background. That said, here are a few minor suggestions:
 Best wishes with the article!
 Cheers,   ( ) 17:53, 6 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I'd like for the page to be reviewed for structure, citations, and selected works as it would normally apply to a writer / translator. I have created pages for other notable people in the past, but never for a writer. I understand with writers there may be limitless amount that could be added from books, articles, short stories, but trying to find the right amount for notability and encyclopedic content.
 ✨ Thank you in advance!,   ( ) 03:26, 9 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I'm planning to nominate it for FA. I'm mostly concerned about the grammar and the possible close paraphrasing. Thanks in advance. Best regards,   12:13, 17 February 2024 (UTC). 
 
 
I've created this article with a light overview of a few religions; however I'm no expert on religious studies and would like either additions or good sources to use for expansion into Chinese or African religions. Furthermore, the article has an example categorization of mythologies, but I am uncomfortable with it as it comes from astronomers and not from a religious studies background. If a peer reviewer knows of a similar eclipse myth categorization that comes from within the field, that would be much better to use in the article.
 Thanks,   05:50, 11 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I am having trouble distinguishing between the two sites. I would also like to hear any other general feedback.
 Thanks, —    00:21, 19 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I want other people to look at my article and see how they can improve it
 Thanks,   ( )
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I wish to get it to GA, its a level 5 vital article.
 Thanks,    21:23, 3 April 2024 (UTC) 
 —   (   •   ) 23:52, 3 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because this article underwent a copyedit and sources were added to the article. It is possible this might be a GAN one day. It wouldn't hurt if a peer review was done to evaluate the article in general.
 Thanks,   ( ) 00:47, 3 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I would love to go for my first ever Four Award, which inevitably means getting an article I created to FA status. I have gotten decent at getting my work through DYK and GA, but FA eludes me. I was wondering if I could have people critique my work the same way they would if it were at FA. 
 Thanks, —   (   •   ) 23:51, 2 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've added some information and expanded a few sections, but not all have necessary details. I aim to elevate this article to GA level and welcome input from interested editors to enhance the article. Thank you in advance for your contributions     19:31, 18 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because this is the first I created, and it looks like it could use an expert's final cuts.
 Thank you!   ( ) 11:17, 4 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I'm interested in taking this page through the   process so that it can be a good model for this sort of competition-based programme. I want feedback on a couple of things:
 I'm fairly confident the page is comprehensive and that everything is either sourced inline or implicitly   to the primary source (the same way we allow   without inline citations). —   ( ) 16:01, 12 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I want to get it to FL status.
 Thanks,     13:36, 4 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Featured_articles

Content:  
 
 
 Featured articles are considered to be some of the best articles Wikipedia has to offer, as determined by  . They are used by editors as examples for writing other articles. Before being listed here, articles are reviewed as   for accuracy, neutrality, completeness, and style according to our  . Many featured articles were previously   (which are reviewed with a less restrictive set of criteria).
There are   featured articles out of   articles on the English Wikipedia (about  0.1% or one out of every 1,050 articles). Articles that no longer meet the criteria can be proposed for improvement or removal at  .
 On non-mobile versions of our website, a small bronze star icon ( ) on the top right corner of an article's page indicates that the article is featured. On most smartphones and tablets you can also select "Desktop" at the very bottom of the page  or "Request Desktop Site" in your browser's menu to see this line (do a search to find out how). Additionally, if the current article is featured in another language, a yellow star will appear next to the corresponding entry in the language switcher to let you know.
  
  
 
 :
 
 Biographies are in sub-topics according to the larger topics
 
 Today's featured article:  
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
 
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
" " 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  is available. See also   and  .


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Peer_review

Content: Wikipedia's   process is a feature where an editor can receive feedback from others on how to improve an article they are working on, or receive advice about a specific issue queried by the editor. The process helps users find ways for improvement that they themselves didn't pick up on. Compared to the real-world   process, where experts themselves take part in reviewing the work of another, the majority of the volunteers here, like most editors in Wikipedia, lack expertise in the subject at hand. This is a good thing—it can make   worded articles more accessible to the average reader. Those looking for expert input should consider contacting editors on the  , or contacting a relevant  .
 To  , see the  . Nominators are limited to one review at a time, and are encouraged to help reduce the backlog by commenting on other reviews. Any editor may comment on a review, and there is no requirement that any comment be acted on. Editors and nominators may both edit articles during the discussion.
 A  , with reviewers' comments included, can be found  . For easier navigation, a list of peer reviews, without the reviews themselves included, can be found  . A chronological peer reviews list can be found  . 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because...ga, agh, why not? any comments, missing info, errors, discrepancies, etcetera? thanks.
 Thanks,   ( ) 12:14, 19 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I want to eventually nominate it for GA status. It will be one step closer to achieving the Good Topic listed at  .
 Thanks,     00:09, 19 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 I've listed this article for peer review because I am debating on whether or not to bring it through the   process. I completely rewrote the article, but I am frankly unsure of the prose. I have been looking at it for so long now that I would appreciate any feedback and advice on if it is even remotely ready for a FAC. I am primarily concerned with the prose for the "Analysis" section in particular.
 I am pinging   as they were a great help for the  . I will leave this peer review open for a few months (ideally if there is enough commentary to support that amount of time) to avoid rushing anything and to make sure I give this the amount of time it needs. 
 Thank you in advance. I really do appreciate any help to better improve this article. To be clear, I would completely understand if it is determined that this would not be ready for a FAC.   ( ) 18:15, 17 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've been working on this article for a few months trying to get it as quality as possible, and I've come to sort of a standstill after scouring all the sources I could find, so I wanted to get outside voices. Ideally I want to try to get this up to GA status if possible, but I don't think it's quite ready for a GA nom yet, so I wanted to get feedback on preparing it for that.
 Thanks,   ( ) 09:20, 15 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because...GA attempt. typos, malformed ideas, anythihng that needs pointing out (besides more external sources for music ig) please do.
 Thanks,   ( ) 15:31, 13 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because it was recommended at the failed  . When it was demoted at   the review mentioned both "unattributed opinion" and "uncited text" as well as MOS concerns. Please point out any remaining problems from either of those two reviews and help me address them. I believe I have addressed the image issues.
 Thanks,     07:24, 26 October 2023 (UTC) 
 P.S. Be advised that I intend to pursue   and   for this article.--    09:41, 26 October 2023 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I has been significantly contributing this article and now, despite of the start class assignment, I'm stuck of ideas to do, I has expand every sections, remove some un-needed stuff such as list of glitches and differences between different versions. This game from the   may not have a good impact or else but I just wanted to read your ideas for this article so Thanks,   ( ) 8:10, 23 March 2024 (UTC)
 
 
This is currently at GAN, but I am also listing it here because my ultimate goal is to get this to FAC within the next couple months, and I recently learned that a pre-FAC peer review can take place at the same time as a GAN.   (he/him •   •  ) 01:03, 3 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 Requesting this peer review to seek input from readers external to   on the standard of writing in the article. Whilst I will continue to work on copyediting and concision, it would be great to seek other perspectives on how this article could be improved. I am looking to develop this article to an FA standard which is a new process for me. Thanks!   ( ) 03:43, 20 February 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
Back at peer review after this article has passed a GAN — I plan to take it to FAC later this year. However, as an inexperienced nominator at FAC, I'd sincerely appreciate some more detailed feedback regarding   compliance and the  . I look forward to hearing your comments!   ( ) 05:02, 17 February 2024 (UTC) 
 Nice.
  20:16, 18 February 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because it is the first article I have worked on significantly, and would like to improve it further, preferably to GA in the very long term. The school has historical significance due to it's age (and origination of other schools from it) and the list of student, many of which are significant to german civil society as a whole. I am particularly looking for feedback on structure and sourcing, but content feedback would also be great.
 Thanks,   ( ) 10:05, 19 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because, having spent over two years refining its prose and references and being a significant contributor, I believe that receiving suggestions to enhance the article to FA-class status would be immensely valuable. Gates played a pioneering role in the microcomputer revolution of the 1970s and 1980s. Additionally, he oversees the world's largest private charitable foundation. I look forward to collaborating with the community to enhance the article and elevate its overall quality.
 Thanks,   ( ) 15:33, 18 April 2024 (UTC) 
 Up to  :
 
 
 
This is still a bit of a work in progress, but heading towards   at some point.  If you've ever listened to a radio broadcast, the antenna that transmitted the signal was probably using a special type of transformer invented by Austin.  This article is your chance to learn about a neat bit of technology which has touched your life but you never knew existed, and about the person who invented it.
Thanks,     17:16, 15 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review to get some comments and feedback for the purpose of a Featured article review. 
Thanks,   ( ) 01:28, 14 March 2024 (UTC) 
  I recently reviewed this for GAN, so I wanted to give my thoughts here while they were fresh in my mind:
 I suggest looking at  , a recently promoted featured article about an aviation disaster, for ideas on how your article should be formatted and sourced. I hope this helps.   ( ) 02:23, 14 March 2024 (UTC) 
 I agree with   about the sources, but I'll go a bit further than he did (and my apologies in advance in this reads harshly).  This is overwhelmingly sourced to a single source (the ATSB report), and it's a   source at that.  Of the remaining sources, Johnson and Wong 404's, three others are human-interest biographies of the crew that died which say nothing about the crash which isn't just cherry-picking facts from the ATSB report.  The BBC article is a routine news report from the day of the crash.  There's zero secondary sources that go into any significant detail about the crash, leading me to wonder if this even meets   based on the sources presented.
 Aviation fire fighting is a dangerous business and sadly, crashes happen.  The aircraft involved was an aging transport plane that had been retrofitted for fire fighting, which is true of most planes used in this type of service.  They were flying low-level runs in crappy conditions; again typical of this type of operation.  The probable cause (an unrecoverable low-altitude stall due to wind shear) is also, sadly, not unusual.  What makes this crash special?  But, more importantly, other that the ATSB report and a handful of news articles which just rehash what the ATSB said, what significant coverage of this has there been?     14:24, 16 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I am looking for wider consensus on how images should be laid out in such smaller articles. Compare the   to the   - does the article need that many images to go into detail about windscreens and bus rears? A number of UK bus articles have had images shifted around or removed and replaced entirely over the past year, which has caused some contention within the UK side of  , so opinions neutral to the WikiProject would be gladly appreciated.
 Thanks,   ( ) 15:53, 18 February 2024 (UTC) 
  I'm not sure if it might be just me or something, but when I read on   at the normal 100% size, the image arrangement is, well,  . In this screenshot "The" word (pun intended) is...there, and the rest of the passage does not get seen until after the First Hampshire&Dorset picture ( ). Like I said, it might just be me, and shrinking the page to 75% for example helps, but I just felt I needed to point that out because it really does not look very good. In my opinion this needs a cleanup in terms of image placement regardless of whether it's a bus article or not.   14:30, 19 February 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because there is a lot of work to be done. The page needs rewriting and heavy editing. I would like to have some outside perspective on how to do so.
 Thanks,   ( ) 18:32, 9 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
Recently, I've considerably expanding this BLP, aiming to elevate it to GA status, especially given the significance of the individual as Pakistan's first-ever female chief minister. I've substantially expanded the political career section, but I like  to ensure that the content aligns with WP:BLP standards. I welcome any feedback or suggestions on areas that still need improvement so that I can continue to refine the article. Thank you.   ( ) 19:02, 13 March 2024 (UTC) 
 I hope this helps.   ( ) 20:22, 15 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review to insure the comprehensiveness and accuracy of this article.
 Thanks,   ( ) 17:19, 18 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
Thanks @SouthParkFan65 I think this article is close to being GA nomination worthy. I will will review it with that in mind. I have not yet gone through the sources and that will be my next step after getting to some of these writing comments. 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I simply wish to see what could be improved!  
 Cheers to all,   ( ) 05:00, 2 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 I've proposed the article for peer review with the hopes that it could potentially pass   standards. My main concern, however, is that the lead is probably too short for standards, and the article might need copyediting from a more experienced user to bring it in line with the manual of style. 
 Many thanks,   ( ) 09:32, 2 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because the article needs to be assessed and rated in relevant  
Thanks,   ( ) 15:07, 18 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
Though I do not really have ambitions for FA , your feedback will still be very much welcome, and let's treat it with the potential FA nomination in mind if some mentor wants to take it more seriously.
 The article is largely, though not uniquely, a translation of the French FA article about a seaside resort in Northern France. Of course, French FA is not transferrable to en.wiki, and I'm not aware of French FA criteria but it wouldn't pass today's en.wiki criteria, but still the article is good and I used it to make a better version of it. I reorganised it so that it reads better, and also I added a couple paragraphs missing from the French version (for example, history during WWII), and did not mention a couple of others (like the list of films in which pictures were shot in Le Touquet, as sourced to IMDb). I basically omitted the "In popular culture" and "Notable people" sections. There are a couple of unsourced sentences in the article I marked, but I am resolving these issues at   and with the author of the French article, I know it's not right, look at other stuff.
 In short, any grammar, syntax errors, maybe some omissions that I may have made, or maybe you believe some passages are clinical signs of  , or just small typos - let me know if something is wrong, I will correct it, or explain why I believe this is right.
 Thanks,   ( ) 23:26, 18 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
I'd like to know if this article has GA possibilities, and what would need to be done to make it eligible. 
Thanks,   ( ) 20:00, 18 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because   holds immense importance as the heir apparent to the British throne. His role in the monarchy is pivotal, and any information about him directly impacts the perception of the royal family.
The article provides insights into his life, upbringing, education, and public image. Understanding these aspects is crucial for readers interested in British royalty and contemporary monarchy. As the next in line for the throne, this article has immense significance. 
 The monarchy evolves, and so does Prince William’s role. An FA article remains current. FAs uphold rigorous citation standards. I hope peer reviewers will help us to verify the article's accuracy. Both I and   have been considering an FA-status for the article for long and we believe its time we initiated a peer review. Looking forward to comments from other users. 
Thanks,   ( ) and   ( ) 07:51, 31 March 2024 (UTC) 
  I'll focus on the coverage of his military service, though my comments are limited as this material looks good:
 
 
Hello there, With the aim to identify any more areas that this article needs or may be improved upon before It is nominated for a good article nomination, especially when this is my first time, I have put it up for peer review...
 Thanks,   ( ) 09:38, 25 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I plan to take a stab at a FA in a few months.
Thanks,   ( ) 14:05, 6 March 2024 (UTC) 
 The below, fairly disorganised, but with FAC in mind.
 It is evident that from an in-depth review of the infobox and lead alone, and a cursory glance at the rest of the article, that significant work is needed. Ping me if you want more comments.   ( ) 16:29, 2 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I am looking for both general and specific feedback to further improve the article after the major revisions in the past two years. My intent is to get the article into a suitable state for a GA / A-Class / FA nomination. 
 Thanks,   ( ) 23:53, 16 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I want to prepare it for FAC. This is an important article.
 Thanks,   ( ) 13:55, 15 April 2024 (UTC) 
 This is an excellent article, a note I have is that, when it says "Tigers may kill and even prey on other predators they coexist with." The sentence could potentially imply that preying on other predators is somehow more significant than killing them. That's all I have.   10:32, 21 April 2024 (UTC) 
 We want to address a few points regarding this article. Firstly, there are numerous grammatical errors. In the course of our investigation, we discovered 288 instances of ungrammatical text. For example, while being written in British English, the term "recognized" appears twice in the text. Although we would prefer not to overburden you with a list, we will gladly comply if that is what you demand. Second, there are far too many numbers in the social spacing area for any practical purpose. In all honesty, I have no idea why there are so many numbers. Please arrange things. Third, what is the purpose of including a picture of a toy in this article? Use the better photographs that are available.
 One last thing, do tigers live 26 years in the wild or in captivity? The typical lifespan should be included as well; this is crucial information. And why is "endangered" written in caps?      16:05, 22 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
I've been looking at this article and considering a Featured Article nomination soon. Before this, I'd like for this article to be peer-reviewed. Thanks! :) ~     ( ,  !) 23:05, 27 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I am thinking about taking it to FAC.
 Thanks,   (  21:02, 20 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because after cleaning up all the maintenance templates I've found that the quality is all over the place. I would like to have someone else's eyes on it to see if there are redundant sections or obvious problems that I missed; ideally, I'd like to promote this to GA in the future.
 Thanks,   18:29, 20 March 2024 (UTC) 
 I noticed this on a list of articles requesting peer review and swung by just out of curiosity. I have no subject-specific background. That said, here are a few minor suggestions:
 Best wishes with the article!
 Cheers,   ( ) 17:53, 6 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I'd like for the page to be reviewed for structure, citations, and selected works as it would normally apply to a writer / translator. I have created pages for other notable people in the past, but never for a writer. I understand with writers there may be limitless amount that could be added from books, articles, short stories, but trying to find the right amount for notability and encyclopedic content.
 ✨ Thank you in advance!,   ( ) 03:26, 9 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I'm planning to nominate it for FA. I'm mostly concerned about the grammar and the possible close paraphrasing. Thanks in advance. Best regards,   12:13, 17 February 2024 (UTC). 
 
 
I've created this article with a light overview of a few religions; however I'm no expert on religious studies and would like either additions or good sources to use for expansion into Chinese or African religions. Furthermore, the article has an example categorization of mythologies, but I am uncomfortable with it as it comes from astronomers and not from a religious studies background. If a peer reviewer knows of a similar eclipse myth categorization that comes from within the field, that would be much better to use in the article.
 Thanks,   05:50, 11 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I am having trouble distinguishing between the two sites. I would also like to hear any other general feedback.
 Thanks, —    00:21, 19 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I want other people to look at my article and see how they can improve it
 Thanks,   ( )
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I wish to get it to GA, its a level 5 vital article.
 Thanks,    21:23, 3 April 2024 (UTC) 
 —   (   •   ) 23:52, 3 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because this article underwent a copyedit and sources were added to the article. It is possible this might be a GAN one day. It wouldn't hurt if a peer review was done to evaluate the article in general.
 Thanks,   ( ) 00:47, 3 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I would love to go for my first ever Four Award, which inevitably means getting an article I created to FA status. I have gotten decent at getting my work through DYK and GA, but FA eludes me. I was wondering if I could have people critique my work the same way they would if it were at FA. 
 Thanks, —   (   •   ) 23:51, 2 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've added some information and expanded a few sections, but not all have necessary details. I aim to elevate this article to GA level and welcome input from interested editors to enhance the article. Thank you in advance for your contributions     19:31, 18 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because this is the first I created, and it looks like it could use an expert's final cuts.
 Thank you!   ( ) 11:17, 4 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I'm interested in taking this page through the   process so that it can be a good model for this sort of competition-based programme. I want feedback on a couple of things:
 I'm fairly confident the page is comprehensive and that everything is either sourced inline or implicitly   to the primary source (the same way we allow   without inline citations). —   ( ) 16:01, 12 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I want to get it to FL status.
 Thanks,     13:36, 4 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Non-Wikipedia_disclaimers

Content: 
Reports have sometimes cited the   to support claims that Wikipedia is unreliable. Here is a selection from the disclaimers of sources which are often regarded as reliable.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Non-Wikipedia_disclaimers

Content: 
Reports have sometimes cited the   to support claims that Wikipedia is unreliable. Here is a selection from the disclaimers of sources which are often regarded as reliable.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Survey_disclaimer

Content: 
 By participating in a survey, you consent to the transfer of the information you submit to the   in the United States and elsewhere. The information collected is for internal research purposes only and will not be publicly associated with your account.  However, we may share the results of this survey with the public in anonymized or aggregated forms.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Peer_review

Content: Wikipedia's   process is a feature where an editor can receive feedback from others on how to improve an article they are working on, or receive advice about a specific issue queried by the editor. The process helps users find ways for improvement that they themselves didn't pick up on. Compared to the real-world   process, where experts themselves take part in reviewing the work of another, the majority of the volunteers here, like most editors in Wikipedia, lack expertise in the subject at hand. This is a good thing—it can make   worded articles more accessible to the average reader. Those looking for expert input should consider contacting editors on the  , or contacting a relevant  .
 To  , see the  . Nominators are limited to one review at a time, and are encouraged to help reduce the backlog by commenting on other reviews. Any editor may comment on a review, and there is no requirement that any comment be acted on. Editors and nominators may both edit articles during the discussion.
 A  , with reviewers' comments included, can be found  . For easier navigation, a list of peer reviews, without the reviews themselves included, can be found  . A chronological peer reviews list can be found  . 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because...ga, agh, why not? any comments, missing info, errors, discrepancies, etcetera? thanks.
 Thanks,   ( ) 12:14, 19 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I want to eventually nominate it for GA status. It will be one step closer to achieving the Good Topic listed at  .
 Thanks,     00:09, 19 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 I've listed this article for peer review because I am debating on whether or not to bring it through the   process. I completely rewrote the article, but I am frankly unsure of the prose. I have been looking at it for so long now that I would appreciate any feedback and advice on if it is even remotely ready for a FAC. I am primarily concerned with the prose for the "Analysis" section in particular.
 I am pinging   as they were a great help for the  . I will leave this peer review open for a few months (ideally if there is enough commentary to support that amount of time) to avoid rushing anything and to make sure I give this the amount of time it needs. 
 Thank you in advance. I really do appreciate any help to better improve this article. To be clear, I would completely understand if it is determined that this would not be ready for a FAC.   ( ) 18:15, 17 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've been working on this article for a few months trying to get it as quality as possible, and I've come to sort of a standstill after scouring all the sources I could find, so I wanted to get outside voices. Ideally I want to try to get this up to GA status if possible, but I don't think it's quite ready for a GA nom yet, so I wanted to get feedback on preparing it for that.
 Thanks,   ( ) 09:20, 15 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because...GA attempt. typos, malformed ideas, anythihng that needs pointing out (besides more external sources for music ig) please do.
 Thanks,   ( ) 15:31, 13 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because it was recommended at the failed  . When it was demoted at   the review mentioned both "unattributed opinion" and "uncited text" as well as MOS concerns. Please point out any remaining problems from either of those two reviews and help me address them. I believe I have addressed the image issues.
 Thanks,     07:24, 26 October 2023 (UTC) 
 P.S. Be advised that I intend to pursue   and   for this article.--    09:41, 26 October 2023 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I has been significantly contributing this article and now, despite of the start class assignment, I'm stuck of ideas to do, I has expand every sections, remove some un-needed stuff such as list of glitches and differences between different versions. This game from the   may not have a good impact or else but I just wanted to read your ideas for this article so Thanks,   ( ) 8:10, 23 March 2024 (UTC)
 
 
This is currently at GAN, but I am also listing it here because my ultimate goal is to get this to FAC within the next couple months, and I recently learned that a pre-FAC peer review can take place at the same time as a GAN.   (he/him •   •  ) 01:03, 3 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 Requesting this peer review to seek input from readers external to   on the standard of writing in the article. Whilst I will continue to work on copyediting and concision, it would be great to seek other perspectives on how this article could be improved. I am looking to develop this article to an FA standard which is a new process for me. Thanks!   ( ) 03:43, 20 February 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
Back at peer review after this article has passed a GAN — I plan to take it to FAC later this year. However, as an inexperienced nominator at FAC, I'd sincerely appreciate some more detailed feedback regarding   compliance and the  . I look forward to hearing your comments!   ( ) 05:02, 17 February 2024 (UTC) 
 Nice.
  20:16, 18 February 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because it is the first article I have worked on significantly, and would like to improve it further, preferably to GA in the very long term. The school has historical significance due to it's age (and origination of other schools from it) and the list of student, many of which are significant to german civil society as a whole. I am particularly looking for feedback on structure and sourcing, but content feedback would also be great.
 Thanks,   ( ) 10:05, 19 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because, having spent over two years refining its prose and references and being a significant contributor, I believe that receiving suggestions to enhance the article to FA-class status would be immensely valuable. Gates played a pioneering role in the microcomputer revolution of the 1970s and 1980s. Additionally, he oversees the world's largest private charitable foundation. I look forward to collaborating with the community to enhance the article and elevate its overall quality.
 Thanks,   ( ) 15:33, 18 April 2024 (UTC) 
 Up to  :
 
 
 
This is still a bit of a work in progress, but heading towards   at some point.  If you've ever listened to a radio broadcast, the antenna that transmitted the signal was probably using a special type of transformer invented by Austin.  This article is your chance to learn about a neat bit of technology which has touched your life but you never knew existed, and about the person who invented it.
Thanks,     17:16, 15 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review to get some comments and feedback for the purpose of a Featured article review. 
Thanks,   ( ) 01:28, 14 March 2024 (UTC) 
  I recently reviewed this for GAN, so I wanted to give my thoughts here while they were fresh in my mind:
 I suggest looking at  , a recently promoted featured article about an aviation disaster, for ideas on how your article should be formatted and sourced. I hope this helps.   ( ) 02:23, 14 March 2024 (UTC) 
 I agree with   about the sources, but I'll go a bit further than he did (and my apologies in advance in this reads harshly).  This is overwhelmingly sourced to a single source (the ATSB report), and it's a   source at that.  Of the remaining sources, Johnson and Wong 404's, three others are human-interest biographies of the crew that died which say nothing about the crash which isn't just cherry-picking facts from the ATSB report.  The BBC article is a routine news report from the day of the crash.  There's zero secondary sources that go into any significant detail about the crash, leading me to wonder if this even meets   based on the sources presented.
 Aviation fire fighting is a dangerous business and sadly, crashes happen.  The aircraft involved was an aging transport plane that had been retrofitted for fire fighting, which is true of most planes used in this type of service.  They were flying low-level runs in crappy conditions; again typical of this type of operation.  The probable cause (an unrecoverable low-altitude stall due to wind shear) is also, sadly, not unusual.  What makes this crash special?  But, more importantly, other that the ATSB report and a handful of news articles which just rehash what the ATSB said, what significant coverage of this has there been?     14:24, 16 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I am looking for wider consensus on how images should be laid out in such smaller articles. Compare the   to the   - does the article need that many images to go into detail about windscreens and bus rears? A number of UK bus articles have had images shifted around or removed and replaced entirely over the past year, which has caused some contention within the UK side of  , so opinions neutral to the WikiProject would be gladly appreciated.
 Thanks,   ( ) 15:53, 18 February 2024 (UTC) 
  I'm not sure if it might be just me or something, but when I read on   at the normal 100% size, the image arrangement is, well,  . In this screenshot "The" word (pun intended) is...there, and the rest of the passage does not get seen until after the First Hampshire&Dorset picture ( ). Like I said, it might just be me, and shrinking the page to 75% for example helps, but I just felt I needed to point that out because it really does not look very good. In my opinion this needs a cleanup in terms of image placement regardless of whether it's a bus article or not.   14:30, 19 February 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because there is a lot of work to be done. The page needs rewriting and heavy editing. I would like to have some outside perspective on how to do so.
 Thanks,   ( ) 18:32, 9 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
Recently, I've considerably expanding this BLP, aiming to elevate it to GA status, especially given the significance of the individual as Pakistan's first-ever female chief minister. I've substantially expanded the political career section, but I like  to ensure that the content aligns with WP:BLP standards. I welcome any feedback or suggestions on areas that still need improvement so that I can continue to refine the article. Thank you.   ( ) 19:02, 13 March 2024 (UTC) 
 I hope this helps.   ( ) 20:22, 15 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review to insure the comprehensiveness and accuracy of this article.
 Thanks,   ( ) 17:19, 18 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
Thanks @SouthParkFan65 I think this article is close to being GA nomination worthy. I will will review it with that in mind. I have not yet gone through the sources and that will be my next step after getting to some of these writing comments. 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I simply wish to see what could be improved!  
 Cheers to all,   ( ) 05:00, 2 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 I've proposed the article for peer review with the hopes that it could potentially pass   standards. My main concern, however, is that the lead is probably too short for standards, and the article might need copyediting from a more experienced user to bring it in line with the manual of style. 
 Many thanks,   ( ) 09:32, 2 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because the article needs to be assessed and rated in relevant  
Thanks,   ( ) 15:07, 18 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
Though I do not really have ambitions for FA , your feedback will still be very much welcome, and let's treat it with the potential FA nomination in mind if some mentor wants to take it more seriously.
 The article is largely, though not uniquely, a translation of the French FA article about a seaside resort in Northern France. Of course, French FA is not transferrable to en.wiki, and I'm not aware of French FA criteria but it wouldn't pass today's en.wiki criteria, but still the article is good and I used it to make a better version of it. I reorganised it so that it reads better, and also I added a couple paragraphs missing from the French version (for example, history during WWII), and did not mention a couple of others (like the list of films in which pictures were shot in Le Touquet, as sourced to IMDb). I basically omitted the "In popular culture" and "Notable people" sections. There are a couple of unsourced sentences in the article I marked, but I am resolving these issues at   and with the author of the French article, I know it's not right, look at other stuff.
 In short, any grammar, syntax errors, maybe some omissions that I may have made, or maybe you believe some passages are clinical signs of  , or just small typos - let me know if something is wrong, I will correct it, or explain why I believe this is right.
 Thanks,   ( ) 23:26, 18 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
I'd like to know if this article has GA possibilities, and what would need to be done to make it eligible. 
Thanks,   ( ) 20:00, 18 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because   holds immense importance as the heir apparent to the British throne. His role in the monarchy is pivotal, and any information about him directly impacts the perception of the royal family.
The article provides insights into his life, upbringing, education, and public image. Understanding these aspects is crucial for readers interested in British royalty and contemporary monarchy. As the next in line for the throne, this article has immense significance. 
 The monarchy evolves, and so does Prince William’s role. An FA article remains current. FAs uphold rigorous citation standards. I hope peer reviewers will help us to verify the article's accuracy. Both I and   have been considering an FA-status for the article for long and we believe its time we initiated a peer review. Looking forward to comments from other users. 
Thanks,   ( ) and   ( ) 07:51, 31 March 2024 (UTC) 
  I'll focus on the coverage of his military service, though my comments are limited as this material looks good:
 
 
Hello there, With the aim to identify any more areas that this article needs or may be improved upon before It is nominated for a good article nomination, especially when this is my first time, I have put it up for peer review...
 Thanks,   ( ) 09:38, 25 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I plan to take a stab at a FA in a few months.
Thanks,   ( ) 14:05, 6 March 2024 (UTC) 
 The below, fairly disorganised, but with FAC in mind.
 It is evident that from an in-depth review of the infobox and lead alone, and a cursory glance at the rest of the article, that significant work is needed. Ping me if you want more comments.   ( ) 16:29, 2 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I am looking for both general and specific feedback to further improve the article after the major revisions in the past two years. My intent is to get the article into a suitable state for a GA / A-Class / FA nomination. 
 Thanks,   ( ) 23:53, 16 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I want to prepare it for FAC. This is an important article.
 Thanks,   ( ) 13:55, 15 April 2024 (UTC) 
 This is an excellent article, a note I have is that, when it says "Tigers may kill and even prey on other predators they coexist with." The sentence could potentially imply that preying on other predators is somehow more significant than killing them. That's all I have.   10:32, 21 April 2024 (UTC) 
 We want to address a few points regarding this article. Firstly, there are numerous grammatical errors. In the course of our investigation, we discovered 288 instances of ungrammatical text. For example, while being written in British English, the term "recognized" appears twice in the text. Although we would prefer not to overburden you with a list, we will gladly comply if that is what you demand. Second, there are far too many numbers in the social spacing area for any practical purpose. In all honesty, I have no idea why there are so many numbers. Please arrange things. Third, what is the purpose of including a picture of a toy in this article? Use the better photographs that are available.
 One last thing, do tigers live 26 years in the wild or in captivity? The typical lifespan should be included as well; this is crucial information. And why is "endangered" written in caps?      16:05, 22 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
I've been looking at this article and considering a Featured Article nomination soon. Before this, I'd like for this article to be peer-reviewed. Thanks! :) ~     ( ,  !) 23:05, 27 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I am thinking about taking it to FAC.
 Thanks,   (  21:02, 20 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because after cleaning up all the maintenance templates I've found that the quality is all over the place. I would like to have someone else's eyes on it to see if there are redundant sections or obvious problems that I missed; ideally, I'd like to promote this to GA in the future.
 Thanks,   18:29, 20 March 2024 (UTC) 
 I noticed this on a list of articles requesting peer review and swung by just out of curiosity. I have no subject-specific background. That said, here are a few minor suggestions:
 Best wishes with the article!
 Cheers,   ( ) 17:53, 6 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I'd like for the page to be reviewed for structure, citations, and selected works as it would normally apply to a writer / translator. I have created pages for other notable people in the past, but never for a writer. I understand with writers there may be limitless amount that could be added from books, articles, short stories, but trying to find the right amount for notability and encyclopedic content.
 ✨ Thank you in advance!,   ( ) 03:26, 9 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I'm planning to nominate it for FA. I'm mostly concerned about the grammar and the possible close paraphrasing. Thanks in advance. Best regards,   12:13, 17 February 2024 (UTC). 
 
 
I've created this article with a light overview of a few religions; however I'm no expert on religious studies and would like either additions or good sources to use for expansion into Chinese or African religions. Furthermore, the article has an example categorization of mythologies, but I am uncomfortable with it as it comes from astronomers and not from a religious studies background. If a peer reviewer knows of a similar eclipse myth categorization that comes from within the field, that would be much better to use in the article.
 Thanks,   05:50, 11 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I am having trouble distinguishing between the two sites. I would also like to hear any other general feedback.
 Thanks, —    00:21, 19 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I want other people to look at my article and see how they can improve it
 Thanks,   ( )
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I wish to get it to GA, its a level 5 vital article.
 Thanks,    21:23, 3 April 2024 (UTC) 
 —   (   •   ) 23:52, 3 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because this article underwent a copyedit and sources were added to the article. It is possible this might be a GAN one day. It wouldn't hurt if a peer review was done to evaluate the article in general.
 Thanks,   ( ) 00:47, 3 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I would love to go for my first ever Four Award, which inevitably means getting an article I created to FA status. I have gotten decent at getting my work through DYK and GA, but FA eludes me. I was wondering if I could have people critique my work the same way they would if it were at FA. 
 Thanks, —   (   •   ) 23:51, 2 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've added some information and expanded a few sections, but not all have necessary details. I aim to elevate this article to GA level and welcome input from interested editors to enhance the article. Thank you in advance for your contributions     19:31, 18 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because this is the first I created, and it looks like it could use an expert's final cuts.
 Thank you!   ( ) 11:17, 4 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I'm interested in taking this page through the   process so that it can be a good model for this sort of competition-based programme. I want feedback on a couple of things:
 I'm fairly confident the page is comprehensive and that everything is either sourced inline or implicitly   to the primary source (the same way we allow   without inline citations). —   ( ) 16:01, 12 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I want to get it to FL status.
 Thanks,     13:36, 4 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Survey_disclaimer

Content: 
 By participating in a survey, you consent to the transfer of the information you submit to the   in the United States and elsewhere. The information collected is for internal research purposes only and will not be publicly associated with your account.  However, we may share the results of this survey with the public in anonymized or aggregated forms.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Risk_disclaimer

Content: 
 
 Some information on Wikipedia may create an unreasonable risk for readers who choose to apply or use the information in their own activities, or to promote the information for use by third parties.
 None of the authors, contributors, administrators, vandals, or anyone else connected with Wikipedia, in any way whatsoever, can be responsible for your use of the information contained in or linked from these web pages.
 Please take all steps necessary to ascertain that information you receive from Wikipedia is correct and has been verified. Check the   at the end of the article, and read the article's   and   to see if there are outstanding disputes over the contents of the article. Double-check all information with independent sources.
 If an article contains suggestions regarding dangerous, illegal, or unethical activities,  . The authors may not be qualified to provide you with complete information or to inform you about adequate safety precautions and other measures to prevent injury, or other damage to your person, property, or reputation. If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, marital or risk management), please seek a professional licensed or knowledgeable in that area.
 
 No consequential damages can be sought against Wikipedia, as it is a voluntary association of individuals formed to create freely-licensed online educational, cultural, and informational resources. This information is being given to you gratuitously, and   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC BY-SA), and the   (GFDL).
 


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_talk:102.213.92.30

Content: People on Wikipedia can use this   to post a public message about edits made from the IP address you are currently using.
 Many IP addresses change periodically, and are often shared by several people. You may   or   to avoid future confusion with other logged out users. Creating an account also hides your IP address.
 This page is not available in other languages.

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Non-Wikipedia_disclaimers

Content: 
Reports have sometimes cited the   to support claims that Wikipedia is unreliable. Here is a selection from the disclaimers of sources which are often regarded as reliable.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Risk_disclaimer

Content: 
 
 Some information on Wikipedia may create an unreasonable risk for readers who choose to apply or use the information in their own activities, or to promote the information for use by third parties.
 None of the authors, contributors, administrators, vandals, or anyone else connected with Wikipedia, in any way whatsoever, can be responsible for your use of the information contained in or linked from these web pages.
 Please take all steps necessary to ascertain that information you receive from Wikipedia is correct and has been verified. Check the   at the end of the article, and read the article's   and   to see if there are outstanding disputes over the contents of the article. Double-check all information with independent sources.
 If an article contains suggestions regarding dangerous, illegal, or unethical activities,  . The authors may not be qualified to provide you with complete information or to inform you about adequate safety precautions and other measures to prevent injury, or other damage to your person, property, or reputation. If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, marital or risk management), please seek a professional licensed or knowledgeable in that area.
 
 No consequential damages can be sought against Wikipedia, as it is a voluntary association of individuals formed to create freely-licensed online educational, cultural, and informational resources. This information is being given to you gratuitously, and   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC BY-SA), and the   (GFDL).
 


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Medical_disclaimer

Content: Wikipedia contains articles on many  ; however,   is made that any of the articles are accurate. There is absolutely no assurance that any statement contained or cited in an article touching on medical matters is true, correct, precise, or up-to-date. The overwhelming majority of such articles are written, in part or in whole, by non-professionals. Even if a statement made about medicine is accurate, it may not apply to you or your symptoms.
 The medical information provided on Wikipedia is, at best, of a general nature and   (for instance, a qualified doctor/physician, nurse, pharmacist/chemist, and so on).  
 None of the individual contributors, system operators, developers, sponsors of Wikipedia, nor anyone else connected to Wikipedia can take any responsibility for the results or consequences of any attempt to use or adopt any of the information presented on this web site.
 


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Medical_disclaimer

Content: Wikipedia contains articles on many  ; however,   is made that any of the articles are accurate. There is absolutely no assurance that any statement contained or cited in an article touching on medical matters is true, correct, precise, or up-to-date. The overwhelming majority of such articles are written, in part or in whole, by non-professionals. Even if a statement made about medicine is accurate, it may not apply to you or your symptoms.
 The medical information provided on Wikipedia is, at best, of a general nature and   (for instance, a qualified doctor/physician, nurse, pharmacist/chemist, and so on).  
 None of the individual contributors, system operators, developers, sponsors of Wikipedia, nor anyone else connected to Wikipedia can take any responsibility for the results or consequences of any attempt to use or adopt any of the information presented on this web site.
 


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Survey_disclaimer

Content: 
 By participating in a survey, you consent to the transfer of the information you submit to the   in the United States and elsewhere. The information collected is for internal research purposes only and will not be publicly associated with your account.  However, we may share the results of this survey with the public in anonymized or aggregated forms.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Legal_disclaimer

Content: Wikipedia contains articles on many  ; however,   is made that any of the articles are accurate. There is absolutely no assurance that any statement contained in an article touching on legal matters is true, correct, or precise. Law varies from place-to-place, and it evolves over time—sometimes quite quickly. Even if a statement made about the law is accurate, it may only be accurate in the jurisdiction of the person posting the information; as well, the law may have changed, been modified, or overturned by subsequent development since the entry was made on Wikipedia.
 The legal information provided on Wikipedia is, at best, of a general nature and  , i.e., by a competent authority with specialized knowledge who can apply it to the particular circumstances of your case. Please contact a local  ,  , or similar association of   in your legal   to obtain a referral to a competent legal professional if you do not have other means of contacting an attorney-at-law,  ,  ,  , or  .
 Neither the individual contributors, system operators, developers, nor sponsors of Wikipedia, nor anyone else connected to Wikipedia can take any responsibility for the results or consequences of any attempt to use or adopt any of the information or disinformation presented on this web site.
 


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Legal_disclaimer

Content: Wikipedia contains articles on many  ; however,   is made that any of the articles are accurate. There is absolutely no assurance that any statement contained in an article touching on legal matters is true, correct, or precise. Law varies from place-to-place, and it evolves over time—sometimes quite quickly. Even if a statement made about the law is accurate, it may only be accurate in the jurisdiction of the person posting the information; as well, the law may have changed, been modified, or overturned by subsequent development since the entry was made on Wikipedia.
 The legal information provided on Wikipedia is, at best, of a general nature and  , i.e., by a competent authority with specialized knowledge who can apply it to the particular circumstances of your case. Please contact a local  ,  , or similar association of   in your legal   to obtain a referral to a competent legal professional if you do not have other means of contacting an attorney-at-law,  ,  ,  , or  .
 Neither the individual contributors, system operators, developers, nor sponsors of Wikipedia, nor anyone else connected to Wikipedia can take any responsibility for the results or consequences of any attempt to use or adopt any of the information or disinformation presented on this web site.
 


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Risk_disclaimer

Content: 
 
 Some information on Wikipedia may create an unreasonable risk for readers who choose to apply or use the information in their own activities, or to promote the information for use by third parties.
 None of the authors, contributors, administrators, vandals, or anyone else connected with Wikipedia, in any way whatsoever, can be responsible for your use of the information contained in or linked from these web pages.
 Please take all steps necessary to ascertain that information you receive from Wikipedia is correct and has been verified. Check the   at the end of the article, and read the article's   and   to see if there are outstanding disputes over the contents of the article. Double-check all information with independent sources.
 If an article contains suggestions regarding dangerous, illegal, or unethical activities,  . The authors may not be qualified to provide you with complete information or to inform you about adequate safety precautions and other measures to prevent injury, or other damage to your person, property, or reputation. If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, marital or risk management), please seek a professional licensed or knowledgeable in that area.
 
 No consequential damages can be sought against Wikipedia, as it is a voluntary association of individuals formed to create freely-licensed online educational, cultural, and informational resources. This information is being given to you gratuitously, and   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC BY-SA), and the   (GFDL).
 


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Content_disclaimer

Content: In its encyclopedic function, Wikipedia contains millions of   on a vast array of topics. A relatively small fraction of these topics are frequently censored by educational, governmental, corporate, parental, and other filtering schemes.
 Wikipedia's current policy is to include such content, provided it breaches neither any of our existing   (especially  ) nor the laws of the  , where Wikipedia is hosted. See   for some examples of articles that may contain such content. None of these articles contain warnings.
 In any case, Wikipedia is a work in progress, and many articles contain  ,  , or  , or may simply need  . We encourage readers to help us fix these problems.  The great majority of articles are written primarily or solely by individuals who are not subject matter experts, and may lack academic or professional credentials in the area.  
 Wikipedia contains obscure information that would not be covered in a conventional encyclopedia. Wikipedia's coverage is based on the interests of its volunteer contributors.  Readers should not judge the importance of topics based on their coverage in Wikipedia, nor assume that a topic is important merely because it is the subject of a Wikipedia article. 
 See also:  .


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Content_disclaimer

Content: In its encyclopedic function, Wikipedia contains millions of   on a vast array of topics. A relatively small fraction of these topics are frequently censored by educational, governmental, corporate, parental, and other filtering schemes.
 Wikipedia's current policy is to include such content, provided it breaches neither any of our existing   (especially  ) nor the laws of the  , where Wikipedia is hosted. See   for some examples of articles that may contain such content. None of these articles contain warnings.
 In any case, Wikipedia is a work in progress, and many articles contain  ,  , or  , or may simply need  . We encourage readers to help us fix these problems.  The great majority of articles are written primarily or solely by individuals who are not subject matter experts, and may lack academic or professional credentials in the area.  
 Wikipedia contains obscure information that would not be covered in a conventional encyclopedia. Wikipedia's coverage is based on the interests of its volunteer contributors.  Readers should not judge the importance of topics based on their coverage in Wikipedia, nor assume that a topic is important merely because it is the subject of a Wikipedia article. 
 See also:  .


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_talk:102.213.92.30

Content: People on Wikipedia can use this   to post a public message about edits made from the IP address you are currently using.
 Many IP addresses change periodically, and are often shared by several people. You may   or   to avoid future confusion with other logged out users. Creating an account also hides your IP address.
 This page is not available in other languages.

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:General_disclaimer&printable=yes

Content: 
 
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate, or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will. However,   The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized, or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works  .
 Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content. However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever. Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops, or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers, or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify, or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, or similar rights that are mentioned, used, or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated, Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by, nor affiliated with, any of the holders of any such rights, and as such, Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or recently-deceased. The use of images of living or recently-deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.  
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution. Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain, or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management), please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:General_disclaimer&printable=yes

Content: 
 
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate, or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will. However,   The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized, or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works  .
 Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content. However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever. Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops, or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers, or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify, or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, or similar rights that are mentioned, used, or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated, Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by, nor affiliated with, any of the holders of any such rights, and as such, Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or recently-deceased. The use of images of living or recently-deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.  
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution. Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain, or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management), please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Medical_disclaimer

Content: Wikipedia contains articles on many  ; however,   is made that any of the articles are accurate. There is absolutely no assurance that any statement contained or cited in an article touching on medical matters is true, correct, precise, or up-to-date. The overwhelming majority of such articles are written, in part or in whole, by non-professionals. Even if a statement made about medicine is accurate, it may not apply to you or your symptoms.
 The medical information provided on Wikipedia is, at best, of a general nature and   (for instance, a qualified doctor/physician, nurse, pharmacist/chemist, and so on).  
 None of the individual contributors, system operators, developers, sponsors of Wikipedia, nor anyone else connected to Wikipedia can take any responsibility for the results or consequences of any attempt to use or adopt any of the information presented on this web site.
 


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:DownloadAsPdf&page=Wikipedia%3AGeneral_disclaimer&action=show-download-screen

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:QrCode&url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FWikipedia%3AGeneral_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:DownloadAsPdf&page=Wikipedia%3AGeneral_disclaimer&action=show-download-screen

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Legal_disclaimer

Content: Wikipedia contains articles on many  ; however,   is made that any of the articles are accurate. There is absolutely no assurance that any statement contained in an article touching on legal matters is true, correct, or precise. Law varies from place-to-place, and it evolves over time—sometimes quite quickly. Even if a statement made about the law is accurate, it may only be accurate in the jurisdiction of the person posting the information; as well, the law may have changed, been modified, or overturned by subsequent development since the entry was made on Wikipedia.
 The legal information provided on Wikipedia is, at best, of a general nature and  , i.e., by a competent authority with specialized knowledge who can apply it to the particular circumstances of your case. Please contact a local  ,  , or similar association of   in your legal   to obtain a referral to a competent legal professional if you do not have other means of contacting an attorney-at-law,  ,  ,  , or  .
 Neither the individual contributors, system operators, developers, nor sponsors of Wikipedia, nor anyone else connected to Wikipedia can take any responsibility for the results or consequences of any attempt to use or adopt any of the information or disinformation presented on this web site.
 


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UrlShortener&url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FWikipedia%3AGeneral_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:QrCode&url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FWikipedia%3AGeneral_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Content_disclaimer

Content: In its encyclopedic function, Wikipedia contains millions of   on a vast array of topics. A relatively small fraction of these topics are frequently censored by educational, governmental, corporate, parental, and other filtering schemes.
 Wikipedia's current policy is to include such content, provided it breaches neither any of our existing   (especially  ) nor the laws of the  , where Wikipedia is hosted. See   for some examples of articles that may contain such content. None of these articles contain warnings.
 In any case, Wikipedia is a work in progress, and many articles contain  ,  , or  , or may simply need  . We encourage readers to help us fix these problems.  The great majority of articles are written primarily or solely by individuals who are not subject matter experts, and may lack academic or professional credentials in the area.  
 Wikipedia contains obscure information that would not be covered in a conventional encyclopedia. Wikipedia's coverage is based on the interests of its volunteer contributors.  Readers should not judge the importance of topics based on their coverage in Wikipedia, nor assume that a topic is important merely because it is the subject of a Wikipedia article. 
 See also:  .


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UrlShortener&url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FWikipedia%3AGeneral_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:General_disclaimer&oldid=1217601857

Content: 
 
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate, or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will. However,   The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized, or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works  .
 Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content. However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever. Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops, or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers, or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify, or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, or similar rights that are mentioned, used, or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated, Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by, nor affiliated with, any of the holders of any such rights, and as such, Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or recently-deceased. The use of images of living or recently-deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.  
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution. Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain, or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management), please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:General_disclaimer&action=info

Content: This page is a member of 1 hidden category :
 


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:General_disclaimer&printable=yes

Content: 
 
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate, or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will. However,   The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized, or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works  .
 Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content. However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever. Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops, or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers, or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify, or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, or similar rights that are mentioned, used, or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated, Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by, nor affiliated with, any of the holders of any such rights, and as such, Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or recently-deceased. The use of images of living or recently-deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.  
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution. Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain, or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management), please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:DownloadAsPdf&page=Wikipedia%3AGeneral_disclaimer&action=show-download-screen

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:General_disclaimer&action=info

Content: This page is a member of 1 hidden category :
 


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Contributions/102.213.92.30

Content: No changes were found matching these criteria.
 This page is not available in other languages.

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:QrCode&url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FWikipedia%3AGeneral_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:WhatLinksHere/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: The following pages link to    
 Showing 50 items.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:General_disclaimer&oldid=1217601857

Content: 
 
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate, or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will. However,   The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized, or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works  .
 Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content. However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever. Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops, or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers, or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify, or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, or similar rights that are mentioned, used, or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated, Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by, nor affiliated with, any of the holders of any such rights, and as such, Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or recently-deceased. The use of images of living or recently-deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.  
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution. Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain, or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management), please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: Enter a page name to see changes on pages linked to or from that page. (To see members of a category, enter Category:Name of category).   See more at  .


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UrlShortener&url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FWikipedia%3AGeneral_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Artificial+intelligence

Content: edits articles recent contributors This page is not available in other languages.

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:General_disclaimer&action=info

Content: This page is a member of 1 hidden category :
 


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_talk:102.213.92.30

Content: People on Wikipedia can use this   to post a public message about edits made from the IP address you are currently using.
 Many IP addresses change periodically, and are often shared by several people. You may   or   to avoid future confusion with other logged out users. Creating an account also hides your IP address.
 This page is not available in other languages.

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: Enter a page name to see changes on pages linked to or from that page. (To see members of a category, enter Category:Name of category).   See more at  .


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Contributions/102.213.92.30

Content: No changes were found matching these criteria.
 This page is not available in other languages.

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:WhatLinksHere/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: The following pages link to    
 Showing 50 items.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:General_disclaimer&oldid=1217601857

Content: 
 
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate, or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will. However,   The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized, or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works  .
 Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content. However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever. Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops, or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers, or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify, or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, or similar rights that are mentioned, used, or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated, Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by, nor affiliated with, any of the holders of any such rights, and as such, Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or recently-deceased. The use of images of living or recently-deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.  
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution. Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain, or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management), please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Artificial+intelligence&campaign=loginCTA

Content: edits articles recent contributors

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:General_disclaimer&action=history

Content: For any version listed below, click on its date to view it. For more help, see   and  .   from current version,   from preceding version,  ,  ,  


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Search

Content: This page is not available in other languages.

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:General_disclaimer&action=edit

Content: You do not have permission to edit this page, for the following reason:
 
 Return to  .

URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Search

Content: This page is not available in other languages.

URL: https://zh-yue.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:%E4%B8%80%E8%88%AC%E5%85%8D%E8%B2%AC%E8%81%B2%E6%98%8E

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 維基百科係網上內容公開嘅一部合作百科全書，係發展人類同享知識嘅志願組織。 呢項計劃嘅結構畀任何上到互聯網嘅人修改佢嘅內容。 請你明白：呢度無嘢真係一定被有專業知識嘅人審過；呢度啲料未必完備、準或者可靠。
 呢個並唔係講你喺維基百科上搵唔到有意義或者準確嘅資訊，但係要留意 。喺任何計劃頁嘅內容可能最近已經俾人改咗、破壞咗、或者俾某啲領域嘅認知唔同嘅人改咗源碼。請留意，好多其他百科全書同埋參考都有免責聲明。
 我哋嘅社群中嘅比較活躍嘅人會用 同埋 嘅工具嚟𥄫住新嘢同埋改過嘅嘢。然而，維基百科唔會受到正式嘅 （peer review）；雖然睇嘅人可以改瑕疵或者參考到唔正式嘅 入面，但係佢哋冇法律義務咁做，所以你喺呢度攞到嘅嘢都唔針對特定嘅目的或者一般人用嘅適用性提供任何暗示嘅保證。就算內容已經被同步審核通過或者經過 評選過嘅文章，佢依然可能係你瀏覽到之前啱啱俾人修改過。
 
 請明白，你喺呢度拎到嘅資訊都係自由、免費嘅，而且你唔會同呢個網站嘅擁有人或使用者、伺服器嘅供應商、任何維基百科嘅參與者（即係個人）、管理員、事務員，或者其他同呢個計劃或姊妹計劃有任何關聯嘅人建立任何申索嘅協議或合同。喺一個有限嘅授權之下，你可以由呢個網站複製任何內容，但係呢個並唔意味住維基百科同埋佢嘅代理人、成員、組織人或者其他使用者要去承擔任何契約性或者契約以外嘅責任。
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 如果你需要某啲方面（例如醫學、法律、財政、風險管理等）嘅專業建議，請搵返嗰方面有專業牌照或者相關專業知識嘅人。


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:PasswordReset

Content: Fill in one of the fields to receive a temporary password via email.


URL: https://zh-yue.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:%E4%B8%80%E8%88%AC%E5%85%8D%E8%B2%AC%E8%81%B2%E6%98%8E

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 維基百科係網上內容公開嘅一部合作百科全書，係發展人類同享知識嘅志願組織。 呢項計劃嘅結構畀任何上到互聯網嘅人修改佢嘅內容。 請你明白：呢度無嘢真係一定被有專業知識嘅人審過；呢度啲料未必完備、準或者可靠。
 呢個並唔係講你喺維基百科上搵唔到有意義或者準確嘅資訊，但係要留意 。喺任何計劃頁嘅內容可能最近已經俾人改咗、破壞咗、或者俾某啲領域嘅認知唔同嘅人改咗源碼。請留意，好多其他百科全書同埋參考都有免責聲明。
 我哋嘅社群中嘅比較活躍嘅人會用 同埋 嘅工具嚟𥄫住新嘢同埋改過嘅嘢。然而，維基百科唔會受到正式嘅 （peer review）；雖然睇嘅人可以改瑕疵或者參考到唔正式嘅 入面，但係佢哋冇法律義務咁做，所以你喺呢度攞到嘅嘢都唔針對特定嘅目的或者一般人用嘅適用性提供任何暗示嘅保證。就算內容已經被同步審核通過或者經過 評選過嘅文章，佢依然可能係你瀏覽到之前啱啱俾人修改過。
 
 請明白，你喺呢度拎到嘅資訊都係自由、免費嘅，而且你唔會同呢個網站嘅擁有人或使用者、伺服器嘅供應商、任何維基百科嘅參與者（即係個人）、管理員、事務員，或者其他同呢個計劃或姊妹計劃有任何關聯嘅人建立任何申索嘅協議或合同。喺一個有限嘅授權之下，你可以由呢個網站複製任何內容，但係呢個並唔意味住維基百科同埋佢嘅代理人、成員、組織人或者其他使用者要去承擔任何契約性或者契約以外嘅責任。
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 如果你需要某啲方面（例如醫學、法律、財政、風險管理等）嘅專業建議，請搵返嗰方面有專業牌照或者相關專業知識嘅人。


URL: https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:%E5%85%8D%E8%B4%A3%E5%A3%B0%E6%98%8E

Content: 是内容开放的在线的百科全书，它是由个人和团体志愿合作开发的人类知识的共有资源。这个计划的体系允许任何人通过网络连接修改其内容。因此，请注意您在这里找到的内容，并不一定由任何相关领域的专家和专业人员审查过，因此维基百科也无法保证给你提供完善、正确、可靠的信息。
 这并不是说您在维基百科上找不到有价值的和正确的信息，但是请注意 。任何特定条目的内容都可能在最近已经被修改、破坏或被对相关领域认知状况不一致的人变更。请注意，大多数其他百科全书和参考作品也有 。
 我们社群中活跃的编者会使用 和 工具来监视新的和更改的内容。然而，维基百科并无普遍受到同行评审；虽然读者可以修改错误或者参与到非正式的 中，但他们没有法律义务这样做，因此您在这里获取的所有信息都不对针对特定目的或一般使用的适用性提供任何暗示的保证。即使已经由同行评审通过的或经过 评选过程的文章，依然可能在您浏览前刚刚被修改过。
 
 请确认您了解到，您从这里所获得的信息都是自由、免费的，而且您没有与任何人有契约或合同关系，无论是本站的使用者、所有者、服务器提供商、任何维基百科参与者个人、管理员，还是其他任何与本计划及相关计划有直接或间接关系的个人或团体。在一个有限许可之下，您可以从本站复制任何内容，但这并不意味着维基百科或它的代理人、成员、组织者或其他用户对其承担任何契约性的或契约以外的责任。
 在 协议（CC-BY-SA）及 （GFDL）之外， 没有协议与使用和修改这些信息有关联；维基百科上也没有任何人应对修改、编辑或移除你张贴在维基百科或其相关计划的任何信息负责。
 维基百科条目中使用或提及的任何商标（包括服务商标、集体商标），或是设计权以及提及的其他权利，都属于其对应所有者的财产。维基百科条目的原作者在此根据CC-BY-SA和GFDL许可方案使用这些商标，但这并不意味着您也可以为相同或类似目的使用。除非另有说明，否则维基百科或维基媒体基金会不会与任何此类权利的所有人存在关联，所以也无法授权您使用任何受到保护的内容。您在使用任何此类或类似无形财产时需要自担风险。
 维基百科包含可确认身份的在世或最近过世的人的传记。在某些司法管辖区，有关 的法律限制生者或最近去世的人的图像的使用，并独立于这些图像的著作权状态。在使用这些类型的内容之前，请确保与你的使用意图相关的法律授予你使用该内容的权利。 
 请注意将您在这里所找到的信息发布出去有可能会违反您所在国家或司法管辖区的法律。维基百科的数据库都是储存在位于美国的服务器中，因而任何内容都受到当地法律和美国联邦法律的保护。您所在国家或司法管辖区的法律有可能没有对相同种类的言论和发行进行保护。维基百科并不鼓励任何人触犯法律，因此如果您链接到此域名或使用、复制或转载本站包含的信息，维基百科无法为可能带来的违反此类法律的行为负责。
 如果您需要具体的建议（例如在医学、法律和风险管理方面），请咨询一名注册或在该领域有能力的专业人士。


URL: https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:%E5%85%8D%E8%B4%A3%E5%A3%B0%E6%98%8E

Content: 是内容开放的在线的百科全书，它是由个人和团体志愿合作开发的人类知识的共有资源。这个计划的体系允许任何人通过网络连接修改其内容。因此，请注意您在这里找到的内容，并不一定由任何相关领域的专家和专业人员审查过，因此维基百科也无法保证给你提供完善、正确、可靠的信息。
 这并不是说您在维基百科上找不到有价值的和正确的信息，但是请注意 。任何特定条目的内容都可能在最近已经被修改、破坏或被对相关领域认知状况不一致的人变更。请注意，大多数其他百科全书和参考作品也有 。
 我们社群中活跃的编者会使用 和 工具来监视新的和更改的内容。然而，维基百科并无普遍受到同行评审；虽然读者可以修改错误或者参与到非正式的 中，但他们没有法律义务这样做，因此您在这里获取的所有信息都不对针对特定目的或一般使用的适用性提供任何暗示的保证。即使已经由同行评审通过的或经过 评选过程的文章，依然可能在您浏览前刚刚被修改过。
 
 请确认您了解到，您从这里所获得的信息都是自由、免费的，而且您没有与任何人有契约或合同关系，无论是本站的使用者、所有者、服务器提供商、任何维基百科参与者个人、管理员，还是其他任何与本计划及相关计划有直接或间接关系的个人或团体。在一个有限许可之下，您可以从本站复制任何内容，但这并不意味着维基百科或它的代理人、成员、组织者或其他用户对其承担任何契约性的或契约以外的责任。
 在 协议（CC-BY-SA）及 （GFDL）之外， 没有协议与使用和修改这些信息有关联；维基百科上也没有任何人应对修改、编辑或移除你张贴在维基百科或其相关计划的任何信息负责。
 维基百科条目中使用或提及的任何商标（包括服务商标、集体商标），或是设计权以及提及的其他权利，都属于其对应所有者的财产。维基百科条目的原作者在此根据CC-BY-SA和GFDL许可方案使用这些商标，但这并不意味着您也可以为相同或类似目的使用。除非另有说明，否则维基百科或维基媒体基金会不会与任何此类权利的所有人存在关联，所以也无法授权您使用任何受到保护的内容。您在使用任何此类或类似无形财产时需要自担风险。
 维基百科包含可确认身份的在世或最近过世的人的传记。在某些司法管辖区，有关 的法律限制生者或最近去世的人的图像的使用，并独立于这些图像的著作权状态。在使用这些类型的内容之前，请确保与你的使用意图相关的法律授予你使用该内容的权利。 
 请注意将您在这里所找到的信息发布出去有可能会违反您所在国家或司法管辖区的法律。维基百科的数据库都是储存在位于美国的服务器中，因而任何内容都受到当地法律和美国联邦法律的保护。您所在国家或司法管辖区的法律有可能没有对相同种类的言论和发行进行保护。维基百科并不鼓励任何人触犯法律，因此如果您链接到此域名或使用、复制或转载本站包含的信息，维基百科无法为可能带来的违反此类法律的行为负责。
 如果您需要具体的建议（例如在医学、法律和风险管理方面），请咨询一名注册或在该领域有能力的专业人士。


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:WhatLinksHere/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: The following pages link to    
 Showing 50 items.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: Enter a page name to see changes on pages linked to or from that page. (To see members of a category, enter Category:Name of category).   See more at  .


URL: https://yi.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D7%B0%D7%99%D7%A7%D7%99%D7%A4%D6%BC%D7%A2%D7%93%D7%99%D7%A2:%D7%A7%D7%9C%D7%90%D7%A8%D7%A9%D7%98%D7%A2%D7%9C%D7%95%D7%A0%D7%92

Content: פאלגנד זענען עטליכע קלארשטעלונגען וואס איז וויכטיג צו נעמען אין אכט בעת איר באניצט זיך מיט דער  , די רשות דא צו ליינען איז אויף די פאלגנדע תנאים און אייער הסכמה צו זיי.
 מיר זענען דאנקבאר אויב איר וועט אייניגן פון אייער צייט דאס דורכליינען דעם גאנצן בלאט. און מיר האפן איר וועט הנאה האבן פון דער איבערלעבונג וואס וויקיפעדיע שטעלט אייך צו.
 ביטע מאכט זיכער אז איר פארשטייט אז די אינפארמאציע וואס ווערט דא צוגעשטעלט איז אהערגעשטעלט אויף א פרייען און אומזינסטן אופן, און עס איז נישט אפגעראכטן געווארן קיין שום אפמאכן אדער קאנטראקטן צווישן אייך און און די בעלי בתים פון דער פונדאציע אדער אנדערע באניצער אין דעם סייט, די בעלי בתים פון די סערווערס וואס אין זיי איז איינגעשפייכלערט די ענציקלאפעדיע, די פריוואטע פינאנציעלע ביישטייערער צו  , יעדער מנהל פון פון אלע פראיעקטן, טעכניקער אדער יעדער סיי וואסארא אנדערע מענטש וואס איז פארבינדן אויף סיי וואסארא אופן צו דעם פראיעקט אדער אנדערע וואס זענען עקספאוזט צו אייער טענה אויף א דירעקטן וועג. עס ווערט אייך געגעבן א   פון דא צו קאפירן טעקסט, און אויך בילדער.
 די אינפארמאציע ווערט אהערגעשטעלט אומזינסט, און עס איז   קיין שום אפמאך אדער פארשטענדעניש  , צווישן אייך און   אין צוזאמנהאנג צו אייער באניצונג אדער יעדע סיי וואסערע דיינער אן ענדערונג אין די אינפארמאציע, קיינער אין וויקיפעדיע איז נישט פאראנטווארטליך אויף קיין שום ענדערונג רעדאקטירונג, צולייגונג אדער אויסמעקעריי פון אלע אינפארמאציע, וואס איר זענט אויסגעשטעלט צו שרייבן אין   אדער אין סיי וואסארא אנדערע פראיעקט פארבינדן צו איר.
 די שרייבער אין וויקיפעדיע פארפליכטן זיך צו האנדלען אין איינקלאנג צום געזעץ מיטן גענצליכן תמימות, מיט א פערזענליכער און פובליק פאראטווארטליכקייט נישט צו ברעכן דאס געזעץ און נישט צו וואנדאליזירן די אינהאלט וואס ערשיינען אויפן סייט. עס איז נישט ערלויבט אריינצוברענגן טעקסט אדער פיילס פון סייטס וואס זענען באשיצט מיט קאפי רייט געזעצן, לשון הרע, פארשמוצנגן קעגן מענשטן, אדער א עבירה פון יעדן סיי וואסארא אנדערע געזעץ, אריינגערעכנט אויפצודעקן סודות פון לאנד, פריוואטע דאקומענטן, פריוואטקייט אינפארמאציע וואס פארשטערן די פריוואטקייט געזעצן פון דאס לאנד, פאנטענטן און ביזנעס סודות, און ביישפילן פון אנדערע.
 וואנדאליזירן ארטיקלען במזיד איז אן עבירה פון אינטערנעץ געזעץ. 
 וויקיפעדיע נעמט נישט קיין אחריות אויף קאפירעכט פארלעצונגען, לשון הרע, ארויסלאזן בשמוצינגן אויף אנדערע מענטשן, אדער סיי וואסארא בארעכונג פון סיי וואסארא געזעץ, אריינגערעכנט די ארויסגעבן סודות פון סיי וואסארא לאנד, פריוואטע דאקומענטן, ביישפילן, פאטענטן און ביזנעס סודות, און די פאראנטווארטליכקייט אויף די אקטן ליגן בלויז אויף די שרייבערס אליינס.
 די וויקיפעדיע דאטנבאזע איז איינגעשפייכלערט אויף א סערווער אין דעם שטאט   אין די  , און דאס איז אויפגעהאלטן און רעפערענץ צו די שוץ צוגעשטעלט דורך די לאקאלע און פעדאראלע געזעץ.
 געזעצן פון אייער לאנד אדער יוריסדיקציע קען מעגלעך נישט באשיצן אדער ערלויבן די זעלביגע סארט פארם פון רייד אדער פארשפרייטונג.
 וויקיפעדיע טוט חלילה נישט צורעדן צו ברעכן סיי וואסארא געזעצן; און קען נישט זיין פאראנטווארטליך פאר די עבירות פון די געזעצן, זאלט איר חלילה לינקן צו דעם דאומעין אדער נוצן, איבערקאפירן, אדער פובליצירן די אינפארמאציע דא אנאהאלטן.
 עס איז זייער מעגלעך אז פובליקירן די אינפארמאציע דא קען זיין אן עבירה לויט די געזעצן פון אייער לאנד אדער רעליגיע וואס האט די יוריסדיקציע דארטן פון ווי איר ליינט די אינפארמאציע.
 א האנדל-מארקע, באדינסט-מארקע, קאלעקציע-מארקע, אנצייכענען-רעכט און אזוינע רעכטן וואס ווערן דערמאנט, געניצט אדער ציטירט אין די ארטיקלען אין וויקיפעדיע זענען די אייגנטום פון זייערע אייגנטימערס. כאטש זיי זענען געניצט דא טאר מען נישט ניצן זיי פאר קיין שום אנדערן צוועק נאר וואס די מחברים האבן דערלויבט דורכן  GFDL דערלויבניש סכעמע. אחוץ ווען עס שטייט אזוי בפירוש די וויקיפעדיע און וויקימעדיע ערטער זענען נישט אינדארסירט און נישט פארבינדן מיט אבי  ווער עס האלט די רעכטן, און וויקיפעדיע שענקט נישט קיי רעכטן צו ניצן וואסערע געשיצטע מאטעריאלן. ווען איר ניצט אזעלכע אייגנטום נעמט איר אויף זיך פולע אחריות.
 וויקיפעדיע איז אן אנליין אפענער-אינהאלט קאלעבראטיווער ענציקאלפעדיע, ד.ה. א וואלענטירליכער איינזאמעלונג פון איטליכע מענטשן אדער גרופעס, וואס איינער קען נישט דעם צווייטען, וואס זענען פאראייניגט בלויז מיטן איין אייציגן ציל, צוזאמנארבייטן צו אנטוויקלען א בשותפות'דיגער מקור פאר מענטשליכער דעת. דער סטרוקטאר פונעם פראיעקט ערלויבט יעדן מיט א אינטערנעט פארבינדונג צו טוישן איר אינהאלט. ביטע זייט געצה'ט אז גארנישט וואס איר טרעפט דא איז זיכער איבערגעקוקט געווארן דורך מענטשן מיט די פארלאנגטע עקספערטיז, פאסענד צו אייך אהערשטלען מיט די פארגענצליכסטע,  ריכטיגע אדער פארלעסליכע אינפארמאציע.
 דאס איז נישט צו זאגן אז איר וועט נישט טרעפן ווערדפולע און אויסגעהאלטענע אינפארמאציע אין וויקיפעדיע; רוב מאל וועסטו יא. פון דעסט וועגן דאך,   די אינהאלט פון יעדע ארטיקל קען לעצטענס זיך האבן געטוישט, וואנדאלאזירט אדער גענדערט דורך איינעם וואס זיין מיינונג טוט נישט זיין אין איינקלאנג מיט די סטאטוס פון דעת אין דעם רעלאוואנטן פעלד.
 מיר ארבעטן אויף וועגן צו סעלעקטירן ארויסהייבן און אונטערשטרייכן פארלעסליכע ווערסיעס פון ארטיקלען. 
 אונזער אקטיווער קהילה פון רעדאקטארן באנוצן זיך מיט ספעציעלע געצייג דערפאר, ווי די   זייט, און   פיעדס צו מאניטערן נייעם און טוישענדן אינהאלט. פון דעסטוועגן דאך, איז וויקיפדיע נישט איוניפארמעלי חברים איבערגעקוקט; בשעת ליינער קענען טאקע פאררעכטן פעלערס, אדער טאקע זיך אריינלאזן און נאכקוקן און איבערגיין זייערע חברים'ס ארבייט, האבן זיי אבער נישט קיין שום לעגאלע פליכט דאס צו טאן, דעריבער זענען אלע אינפארמאציע וואס איר ליינט דא אן א אחריותדיגער ווארענטי אויף איר פאסיגקייט פאר סיי וואסארא ציל פון אייער דאס נוצן. אפילו די ארטיקלן וואס זענען יא איבערגעקוקט געווארן, און אפילו די  , קען דאס שפעטער געטוישט ווערן אויף צום שלעכט, נאכדעם וואס זיי זענען איבערגעקוקט געווארן.  
 
 
 ביטע כאפט אן אלע מעגלעכקייטן וואס פארלאנגען זיך איינצוזען אז אלע אינפארמאציע וואס איר זענט קונה פון   איז ריכטיג און פעסטגעשטעלט.
 אויב ס'איז דא פארשלאגן וועגן אקטיוויטעטן וואס זענען געפערלעך, אומלעגאל אדער נישט מאראליש, געדענקט אז יעדער איינער קען שרייבן אינפארמאציע אין  , און קען זיין אז זיי שטימען נישט  בכדי לספק עבורך את המידע, שנודע לך לגביו צורך באמצעי זהירות הולמים, או בצעדים שבהם אתה יכול לנקוט כדי למנוע פציעה, נזק גופני או כל נזק אחר לעצמך, ברכוש או מוניטין.
 איר דארפט זיין אויפמערקזאם אז אלץ וואס מען טרעפט אין וויקיפעדיע קען זיין נישט אינגאנצן אויסגעהאלטן, אדער פארגרייזט אדער אומלעגאל.
 פארלאזט זיך נישט אויף קיין שום אינפארמאציע וואס איר טרעפט אין וויקיפעדיע; די בעסטע זאך איז אליין באשטעטיקן.
 אויב איר דארפט ספעציפישע באראטונג (מעדיציניש, געריכטלעך, סכנה באהאנדלען), קאנפערירן אן עקספערט וואס איז ליעצנצירט אדער טאקע געלערנט אינעם פעלד.
 דער צוועק פון וויקיפעדיע איז צו ווערן א זאמלונג פון מענטשלעכע אינפארמאציע, און דערום אנטהאלט זי א סאך ארטיקלען געשריבן וואלונטערלעך דורך א סאך שרייבער.
 מען דארף געדענקען אז וויקיפעדיע איז א וואלונטערלעכער פראיעקט, און דערום קען עס ווערן א ביסל לאנג איידער אז וואנדאליזם וועט ווערן באהאנדלט. וויקיפעדיע נעמט נישט קיין אחריות איבער קיין שאדנס אין דער צייט.
 וויקיפעדיע איז א "יונגע" ענציקלאפעדיע וואס ווערט נאך אנטוויקלעט, און דערום ארטיקלען קענען אנטהאלטן גרייזן, איינשטעלן, קעגנזאצן אדער אומפאסונג מיט די אויבנדערמאנטע כללים.
ווייל וויקיפעדיע איז וואלונטערלעך קען זי נישט נעמען קיין אחריות איבער שאדנס פון ווענדן זיך צו די ארטיקלען. אויב עס איז דא א פארלעצונג פון די כללים וועט מען מאכן יעדן דראנג צו פארריכטן ארטיקלען.
 
 אויב זענט איר אין געברויך פון פראפעסיאנעלע הילף אדער עצות, צום ביישפיל, רפואה, דאקטעריי, לעגאליטעט, הלכה, מנהג, פינאנציעל, אדער סכנה באהאנדלען, א.א.וו. דאן ביטע זוכט אויף א פראפעסיאנאלער עקספערט וואס איז געליינסענסט און געלערנט אין דעם פעלד.
 וויקיפעדיע אנטהאלט א סאך סוביעקטן וועגן רפואה. טראץ דעם קענען מיר נישט צוזאגן בשום אופן אז די אינפארמאציע איז פארלעסלעך. אפילו ווען אלץ איז געשריבן ריכטיק איז נישטא קיין גאראנטי אז עס איז צוגעפאסט צו אייערע סימפטאמען.
 מעדיצינישע אינפארמאציע אין   איז, אין גוטן פאל, אלגעמיין און קען נישט פארבייטן קיין עצה פון א  , ד"ה א באפלומאכטיקער דאקטער, ווארטערקע, אפטייקער אדער אנדערע אזלעכע פערזאנען.   איז נישט קיין דאקטער.
 קיין איינע פון די ביישטייערער, ספאנסערס, אדימיניסטראטורן, אדער סיי ווער אנדערשט פארבונדן מיט וויקיפעדיע קען נישט נעמען קיין אחריות איבער די רעזולטאטן אדער בייטראגן פון פרווון צו ניצן אדער אדאפטירן טיילן פון ריכטיקער אדער פאלשער אינפארמאציע באווייזט אינעם וועבזייטל.
 
 נאטירלעך זענען אייך געבעטען ביישטייערן צו ארטיקלען וועגן   אדער   און ניצן יעדן אינהאלט וואס געפינט זיך דא אונטער דער GNU פרייע באנוץ ליצענץ.
 וויקיפעדיע אנטהאלט ארטיקלען וועגן א סאך געזעצלעכע טעמעס. אבער, ווייל זי איז א פריינע ענציקלאפעדיע קען די אינפארמאציע ווערן אומפינקטלעך. די דאזיקע ארטיקלען זאלן נישט ווערן געזען אלס פינקטלעכע געזעצלעכע אינפארמאציע.
ייתכנו שינויים בדין החל ממדינה למדינה, וכן יתכנו שינויים בחקיקה ובפסיקה של כל מדינה ומדינה. ערכים יכולים להיות מבוססים על המצב המשפטי ששרר בעת הכנתם, אולם עובדה מסוימת, תקדים חדש, או הלך רוח שונה בבתי המשפט, עשויים לשנות את המצב, ואף להפוך אותו לחלוטין.
 המידע המצוי בוויקיפדיה הינו מידע כללי, ואין בו כדי להחליף מידע הניתן על ידי בעל מקצוע. על המעונין בייעוץ משפטי פרטני לפנות לעורך דין העוסק בתחום, ואין ויקיפדיה אחראית לכל נזק או תוצאה שתגרם בעקבות הסתמכות על המידע המופיע בה.
 אין הכותבים בוויקיפדיה נותנים ייעוץ משפטי כהגדרתו בחוק, ואינם מתיימרים ליתן ייעוץ כזה.
 ויקיפדיה נערכת על ידי הציבור הרחב של משתמשי האינטרנט ולכן תיתכנה השחתות הן של מלל והן של תמונות. אין ויקיפדיה אחראית להשחתות אלה, ועושה כל מאמץ על מנת לתקנן.
 כעיקרון ויקיפדיה מאפשרת העלאת תמונות או כתיבת תוכן אשר אינו מפר את הכללים שלה, ואת חוקי המדינה, כך מאופשרת העלאת כל תוכן מקורי בעל ערך אנציקלופדי, אשר ניתן לתומכו, ואשר אינו מהווה הפרה של זכויות יוצרים ומבצעים. הפרות של כלל זה הינן השחתה, וויקיפדיה עושה כל מאמץ למנוע אותן.


URL: https://yi.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D7%B0%D7%99%D7%A7%D7%99%D7%A4%D6%BC%D7%A2%D7%93%D7%99%D7%A2:%D7%A7%D7%9C%D7%90%D7%A8%D7%A9%D7%98%D7%A2%D7%9C%D7%95%D7%A0%D7%92

Content: פאלגנד זענען עטליכע קלארשטעלונגען וואס איז וויכטיג צו נעמען אין אכט בעת איר באניצט זיך מיט דער  , די רשות דא צו ליינען איז אויף די פאלגנדע תנאים און אייער הסכמה צו זיי.
 מיר זענען דאנקבאר אויב איר וועט אייניגן פון אייער צייט דאס דורכליינען דעם גאנצן בלאט. און מיר האפן איר וועט הנאה האבן פון דער איבערלעבונג וואס וויקיפעדיע שטעלט אייך צו.
 ביטע מאכט זיכער אז איר פארשטייט אז די אינפארמאציע וואס ווערט דא צוגעשטעלט איז אהערגעשטעלט אויף א פרייען און אומזינסטן אופן, און עס איז נישט אפגעראכטן געווארן קיין שום אפמאכן אדער קאנטראקטן צווישן אייך און און די בעלי בתים פון דער פונדאציע אדער אנדערע באניצער אין דעם סייט, די בעלי בתים פון די סערווערס וואס אין זיי איז איינגעשפייכלערט די ענציקלאפעדיע, די פריוואטע פינאנציעלע ביישטייערער צו  , יעדער מנהל פון פון אלע פראיעקטן, טעכניקער אדער יעדער סיי וואסארא אנדערע מענטש וואס איז פארבינדן אויף סיי וואסארא אופן צו דעם פראיעקט אדער אנדערע וואס זענען עקספאוזט צו אייער טענה אויף א דירעקטן וועג. עס ווערט אייך געגעבן א   פון דא צו קאפירן טעקסט, און אויך בילדער.
 די אינפארמאציע ווערט אהערגעשטעלט אומזינסט, און עס איז   קיין שום אפמאך אדער פארשטענדעניש  , צווישן אייך און   אין צוזאמנהאנג צו אייער באניצונג אדער יעדע סיי וואסערע דיינער אן ענדערונג אין די אינפארמאציע, קיינער אין וויקיפעדיע איז נישט פאראנטווארטליך אויף קיין שום ענדערונג רעדאקטירונג, צולייגונג אדער אויסמעקעריי פון אלע אינפארמאציע, וואס איר זענט אויסגעשטעלט צו שרייבן אין   אדער אין סיי וואסארא אנדערע פראיעקט פארבינדן צו איר.
 די שרייבער אין וויקיפעדיע פארפליכטן זיך צו האנדלען אין איינקלאנג צום געזעץ מיטן גענצליכן תמימות, מיט א פערזענליכער און פובליק פאראטווארטליכקייט נישט צו ברעכן דאס געזעץ און נישט צו וואנדאליזירן די אינהאלט וואס ערשיינען אויפן סייט. עס איז נישט ערלויבט אריינצוברענגן טעקסט אדער פיילס פון סייטס וואס זענען באשיצט מיט קאפי רייט געזעצן, לשון הרע, פארשמוצנגן קעגן מענשטן, אדער א עבירה פון יעדן סיי וואסארא אנדערע געזעץ, אריינגערעכנט אויפצודעקן סודות פון לאנד, פריוואטע דאקומענטן, פריוואטקייט אינפארמאציע וואס פארשטערן די פריוואטקייט געזעצן פון דאס לאנד, פאנטענטן און ביזנעס סודות, און ביישפילן פון אנדערע.
 וואנדאליזירן ארטיקלען במזיד איז אן עבירה פון אינטערנעץ געזעץ. 
 וויקיפעדיע נעמט נישט קיין אחריות אויף קאפירעכט פארלעצונגען, לשון הרע, ארויסלאזן בשמוצינגן אויף אנדערע מענטשן, אדער סיי וואסארא בארעכונג פון סיי וואסארא געזעץ, אריינגערעכנט די ארויסגעבן סודות פון סיי וואסארא לאנד, פריוואטע דאקומענטן, ביישפילן, פאטענטן און ביזנעס סודות, און די פאראנטווארטליכקייט אויף די אקטן ליגן בלויז אויף די שרייבערס אליינס.
 די וויקיפעדיע דאטנבאזע איז איינגעשפייכלערט אויף א סערווער אין דעם שטאט   אין די  , און דאס איז אויפגעהאלטן און רעפערענץ צו די שוץ צוגעשטעלט דורך די לאקאלע און פעדאראלע געזעץ.
 געזעצן פון אייער לאנד אדער יוריסדיקציע קען מעגלעך נישט באשיצן אדער ערלויבן די זעלביגע סארט פארם פון רייד אדער פארשפרייטונג.
 וויקיפעדיע טוט חלילה נישט צורעדן צו ברעכן סיי וואסארא געזעצן; און קען נישט זיין פאראנטווארטליך פאר די עבירות פון די געזעצן, זאלט איר חלילה לינקן צו דעם דאומעין אדער נוצן, איבערקאפירן, אדער פובליצירן די אינפארמאציע דא אנאהאלטן.
 עס איז זייער מעגלעך אז פובליקירן די אינפארמאציע דא קען זיין אן עבירה לויט די געזעצן פון אייער לאנד אדער רעליגיע וואס האט די יוריסדיקציע דארטן פון ווי איר ליינט די אינפארמאציע.
 א האנדל-מארקע, באדינסט-מארקע, קאלעקציע-מארקע, אנצייכענען-רעכט און אזוינע רעכטן וואס ווערן דערמאנט, געניצט אדער ציטירט אין די ארטיקלען אין וויקיפעדיע זענען די אייגנטום פון זייערע אייגנטימערס. כאטש זיי זענען געניצט דא טאר מען נישט ניצן זיי פאר קיין שום אנדערן צוועק נאר וואס די מחברים האבן דערלויבט דורכן  GFDL דערלויבניש סכעמע. אחוץ ווען עס שטייט אזוי בפירוש די וויקיפעדיע און וויקימעדיע ערטער זענען נישט אינדארסירט און נישט פארבינדן מיט אבי  ווער עס האלט די רעכטן, און וויקיפעדיע שענקט נישט קיי רעכטן צו ניצן וואסערע געשיצטע מאטעריאלן. ווען איר ניצט אזעלכע אייגנטום נעמט איר אויף זיך פולע אחריות.
 וויקיפעדיע איז אן אנליין אפענער-אינהאלט קאלעבראטיווער ענציקאלפעדיע, ד.ה. א וואלענטירליכער איינזאמעלונג פון איטליכע מענטשן אדער גרופעס, וואס איינער קען נישט דעם צווייטען, וואס זענען פאראייניגט בלויז מיטן איין אייציגן ציל, צוזאמנארבייטן צו אנטוויקלען א בשותפות'דיגער מקור פאר מענטשליכער דעת. דער סטרוקטאר פונעם פראיעקט ערלויבט יעדן מיט א אינטערנעט פארבינדונג צו טוישן איר אינהאלט. ביטע זייט געצה'ט אז גארנישט וואס איר טרעפט דא איז זיכער איבערגעקוקט געווארן דורך מענטשן מיט די פארלאנגטע עקספערטיז, פאסענד צו אייך אהערשטלען מיט די פארגענצליכסטע,  ריכטיגע אדער פארלעסליכע אינפארמאציע.
 דאס איז נישט צו זאגן אז איר וועט נישט טרעפן ווערדפולע און אויסגעהאלטענע אינפארמאציע אין וויקיפעדיע; רוב מאל וועסטו יא. פון דעסט וועגן דאך,   די אינהאלט פון יעדע ארטיקל קען לעצטענס זיך האבן געטוישט, וואנדאלאזירט אדער גענדערט דורך איינעם וואס זיין מיינונג טוט נישט זיין אין איינקלאנג מיט די סטאטוס פון דעת אין דעם רעלאוואנטן פעלד.
 מיר ארבעטן אויף וועגן צו סעלעקטירן ארויסהייבן און אונטערשטרייכן פארלעסליכע ווערסיעס פון ארטיקלען. 
 אונזער אקטיווער קהילה פון רעדאקטארן באנוצן זיך מיט ספעציעלע געצייג דערפאר, ווי די   זייט, און   פיעדס צו מאניטערן נייעם און טוישענדן אינהאלט. פון דעסטוועגן דאך, איז וויקיפדיע נישט איוניפארמעלי חברים איבערגעקוקט; בשעת ליינער קענען טאקע פאררעכטן פעלערס, אדער טאקע זיך אריינלאזן און נאכקוקן און איבערגיין זייערע חברים'ס ארבייט, האבן זיי אבער נישט קיין שום לעגאלע פליכט דאס צו טאן, דעריבער זענען אלע אינפארמאציע וואס איר ליינט דא אן א אחריותדיגער ווארענטי אויף איר פאסיגקייט פאר סיי וואסארא ציל פון אייער דאס נוצן. אפילו די ארטיקלן וואס זענען יא איבערגעקוקט געווארן, און אפילו די  , קען דאס שפעטער געטוישט ווערן אויף צום שלעכט, נאכדעם וואס זיי זענען איבערגעקוקט געווארן.  
 
 
 ביטע כאפט אן אלע מעגלעכקייטן וואס פארלאנגען זיך איינצוזען אז אלע אינפארמאציע וואס איר זענט קונה פון   איז ריכטיג און פעסטגעשטעלט.
 אויב ס'איז דא פארשלאגן וועגן אקטיוויטעטן וואס זענען געפערלעך, אומלעגאל אדער נישט מאראליש, געדענקט אז יעדער איינער קען שרייבן אינפארמאציע אין  , און קען זיין אז זיי שטימען נישט  בכדי לספק עבורך את המידע, שנודע לך לגביו צורך באמצעי זהירות הולמים, או בצעדים שבהם אתה יכול לנקוט כדי למנוע פציעה, נזק גופני או כל נזק אחר לעצמך, ברכוש או מוניטין.
 איר דארפט זיין אויפמערקזאם אז אלץ וואס מען טרעפט אין וויקיפעדיע קען זיין נישט אינגאנצן אויסגעהאלטן, אדער פארגרייזט אדער אומלעגאל.
 פארלאזט זיך נישט אויף קיין שום אינפארמאציע וואס איר טרעפט אין וויקיפעדיע; די בעסטע זאך איז אליין באשטעטיקן.
 אויב איר דארפט ספעציפישע באראטונג (מעדיציניש, געריכטלעך, סכנה באהאנדלען), קאנפערירן אן עקספערט וואס איז ליעצנצירט אדער טאקע געלערנט אינעם פעלד.
 דער צוועק פון וויקיפעדיע איז צו ווערן א זאמלונג פון מענטשלעכע אינפארמאציע, און דערום אנטהאלט זי א סאך ארטיקלען געשריבן וואלונטערלעך דורך א סאך שרייבער.
 מען דארף געדענקען אז וויקיפעדיע איז א וואלונטערלעכער פראיעקט, און דערום קען עס ווערן א ביסל לאנג איידער אז וואנדאליזם וועט ווערן באהאנדלט. וויקיפעדיע נעמט נישט קיין אחריות איבער קיין שאדנס אין דער צייט.
 וויקיפעדיע איז א "יונגע" ענציקלאפעדיע וואס ווערט נאך אנטוויקלעט, און דערום ארטיקלען קענען אנטהאלטן גרייזן, איינשטעלן, קעגנזאצן אדער אומפאסונג מיט די אויבנדערמאנטע כללים.
ווייל וויקיפעדיע איז וואלונטערלעך קען זי נישט נעמען קיין אחריות איבער שאדנס פון ווענדן זיך צו די ארטיקלען. אויב עס איז דא א פארלעצונג פון די כללים וועט מען מאכן יעדן דראנג צו פארריכטן ארטיקלען.
 
 אויב זענט איר אין געברויך פון פראפעסיאנעלע הילף אדער עצות, צום ביישפיל, רפואה, דאקטעריי, לעגאליטעט, הלכה, מנהג, פינאנציעל, אדער סכנה באהאנדלען, א.א.וו. דאן ביטע זוכט אויף א פראפעסיאנאלער עקספערט וואס איז געליינסענסט און געלערנט אין דעם פעלד.
 וויקיפעדיע אנטהאלט א סאך סוביעקטן וועגן רפואה. טראץ דעם קענען מיר נישט צוזאגן בשום אופן אז די אינפארמאציע איז פארלעסלעך. אפילו ווען אלץ איז געשריבן ריכטיק איז נישטא קיין גאראנטי אז עס איז צוגעפאסט צו אייערע סימפטאמען.
 מעדיצינישע אינפארמאציע אין   איז, אין גוטן פאל, אלגעמיין און קען נישט פארבייטן קיין עצה פון א  , ד"ה א באפלומאכטיקער דאקטער, ווארטערקע, אפטייקער אדער אנדערע אזלעכע פערזאנען.   איז נישט קיין דאקטער.
 קיין איינע פון די ביישטייערער, ספאנסערס, אדימיניסטראטורן, אדער סיי ווער אנדערשט פארבונדן מיט וויקיפעדיע קען נישט נעמען קיין אחריות איבער די רעזולטאטן אדער בייטראגן פון פרווון צו ניצן אדער אדאפטירן טיילן פון ריכטיקער אדער פאלשער אינפארמאציע באווייזט אינעם וועבזייטל.
 
 נאטירלעך זענען אייך געבעטען ביישטייערן צו ארטיקלען וועגן   אדער   און ניצן יעדן אינהאלט וואס געפינט זיך דא אונטער דער GNU פרייע באנוץ ליצענץ.
 וויקיפעדיע אנטהאלט ארטיקלען וועגן א סאך געזעצלעכע טעמעס. אבער, ווייל זי איז א פריינע ענציקלאפעדיע קען די אינפארמאציע ווערן אומפינקטלעך. די דאזיקע ארטיקלען זאלן נישט ווערן געזען אלס פינקטלעכע געזעצלעכע אינפארמאציע.
ייתכנו שינויים בדין החל ממדינה למדינה, וכן יתכנו שינויים בחקיקה ובפסיקה של כל מדינה ומדינה. ערכים יכולים להיות מבוססים על המצב המשפטי ששרר בעת הכנתם, אולם עובדה מסוימת, תקדים חדש, או הלך רוח שונה בבתי המשפט, עשויים לשנות את המצב, ואף להפוך אותו לחלוטין.
 המידע המצוי בוויקיפדיה הינו מידע כללי, ואין בו כדי להחליף מידע הניתן על ידי בעל מקצוע. על המעונין בייעוץ משפטי פרטני לפנות לעורך דין העוסק בתחום, ואין ויקיפדיה אחראית לכל נזק או תוצאה שתגרם בעקבות הסתמכות על המידע המופיע בה.
 אין הכותבים בוויקיפדיה נותנים ייעוץ משפטי כהגדרתו בחוק, ואינם מתיימרים ליתן ייעוץ כזה.
 ויקיפדיה נערכת על ידי הציבור הרחב של משתמשי האינטרנט ולכן תיתכנה השחתות הן של מלל והן של תמונות. אין ויקיפדיה אחראית להשחתות אלה, ועושה כל מאמץ על מנת לתקנן.
 כעיקרון ויקיפדיה מאפשרת העלאת תמונות או כתיבת תוכן אשר אינו מפר את הכללים שלה, ואת חוקי המדינה, כך מאופשרת העלאת כל תוכן מקורי בעל ערך אנציקלופדי, אשר ניתן לתומכו, ואשר אינו מהווה הפרה של זכויות יוצרים ומבצעים. הפרות של כלל זה הינן השחתה, וויקיפדיה עושה כל מאמץ למנוע אותן.


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_talk:102.213.92.30

Content: People on Wikipedia can use this   to post a public message about edits made from the IP address you are currently using.
 Many IP addresses change periodically, and are often shared by several people. You may   or   to avoid future confusion with other logged out users. Creating an account also hides your IP address.
 This page is not available in other languages.

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:QrCode&url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fw%2Findex.php%3Ftitle%3DSpecial%3AUserLogin%26centralAuthAutologinTried%3D1%26centralAuthError%3DNot%2Bcentrally%2Blogged%2Bin%26returnto%3DArtificial%2Bintelligence

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia_talk:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 The last sentence of "Jurisdiction and legality of content" uses the Oxford comma while the parenthetical in "Not professional advice" appears to omit it. This should be fixed if it's a mistake; if not, someone please tell me what the intended meaning of the parenthetical is.   ( ) 00:21, 21 October 2022 (UTC) 
 Added a link to   following some discussion over at meta-wiki. —     03:08, 12 November 2023 (UTC) 
 Please change   (in both places it appears) to   per   (page 11). Thanks!   (  · he/him) 19:58, 6 April 2024 (UTC) 


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:General_disclaimer&action=history

Content: For any version listed below, click on its date to view it. For more help, see   and  .   from current version,   from preceding version,  ,  ,  


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:File_upload_wizard

Content: Thank you for offering to contribute an image or other media file for use on Wikipedia. This wizard will guide you through a questionnaire prompting you for the appropriate copyright and sourcing information for each file. Please ensure you understand   and the   before proceeding.
 
 Uploads to  
 
 
 Uploads locally to Wikipedia; must comply with the   criteria
 
 
 Sorry, in order to use this uploading script, JavaScript must be enabled. You can still use the plain   page to upload files to the English Wikipedia without JavaScript.
 
 Sorry, in order to use this uploading script and to upload files, you need to be logged in with your named account. Please   and then try again.
 
 Sorry, in order to upload files on the English Wikipedia, you need to have a  . Normally, your account will become confirmed automatically once you have made 10 edits and four days have passed since you created it.     
 You may already be able to upload files on the  , but you can't do it on the English Wikipedia just yet. If the file you want to upload has a free license, please go to Commons and upload it there.
  if you don't want to wait until you are autoconfirmed, you may ask somebody else to upload a file for you at  . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sorry, a few special characters and character combinations cannot be used in the filename for technical reasons. This goes especially for   and  . Your filename has been modified to avoid these. Please check if it is okay now.
 The filename you chose seems to be very short, or overly generic. Please don't use:
 
 If you upload your file with this name, you will be masking the existing file and make it inaccessible. Your new file will be displayed everywhere the existing file was previously used.
 This should not be done, except in very rare exceptional cases.
 Please don't upload your file under this name, unless you seriously know what you are doing. Choose a different name for your new file instead.
 
 If you upload your file with this name, you will be overwriting the existing file. Your new file will be displayed everywhere the existing file was previously used. Please don't do this, unless you have a good reason to:
 It is very important that you read through the following options and questions, and provide all required information truthfully and carefully. 
 Wikipedia loves free files. However, we would love it even more if you uploaded them on our sister project, the  .
Files uploaded on Commons can be used immediately here on Wikipedia as well as on all its sister projects. Uploading files on Commons works just the same as here. Your Wikipedia account will automatically work on Commons too. 
   
 However, if you prefer to do it here instead, you may go ahead with this form. You can also first use this form to collect the information about your file and then send it to Commons from here.
 Please note that by "entirely self-made" we really mean just that. 
  use this section for any of the following:
 Editors who falsely declare such items as their "own work"  .
 Use this   if there is an   in the source. 
 The website must explicitly say that the image is released under a license that allows free re-use for any purpose, e.g. the Creative Commons Attribution license. You must be able to point exactly to where it says this.
 If the source website doesn't say so explicitly, please  .
  means that nobody owns any copyrights on this work. It does   mean simply that it is freely viewable somewhere on the web or that it has been widely used by others. 
 This is   for images you simply found somewhere on the web. Most images on the web are under copyright and belong to somebody, even if you believe the owner won't care about that copyright. If it is in the public domain, you must be able to point to an actual law that makes it so. If you can't point to such a law but merely found this image somewhere, then  
  Please remember that you will need to demonstrate that:
 This file will be used in the following article:
 
    – article okay.
   
 The article   could not be found.
 Please check the spelling, and make sure you enter the name of an existing article in which you will include this file.
 If this is an article you are only planning to write, please write it first and upload the file afterwards.
   
 The page   is not in the main article namespace. Non-free files can only be used in mainspace article pages, not on a user page, talk page, template, etc.
 Please upload this file only if it is going to be used in an actual article.
 If this page is an article draft in your user space, we're sorry, but we must ask you to wait until the page is ready and has been moved into mainspace, and only upload the file after that.
   
 The page   is not a real article, but a disambiguation page pointing to a number of other pages.
 Please check and enter the exact title of the actual target article you meant.
 If neither of these two statements applies, then please  
 This section is   for images used merely to illustrate an article about a person or thing, showing what that person or thing look like.
 In view of this, please explain how the use of this file will be minimal.
 Well, we're very sorry, but if you're not sure about this file's copyright status, or if it doesn't fit into any of the groups above, then:
 
 Really, please don't. Even if you think it would make for a great addition to an article. We really take these copyright rules very seriously on Wikipedia. Note that media is   to be fully-copyrighted unless shown otherwise; the burden is on the uploader.
 In particular, please don't upload:
 If you are in any doubt, please ask some experienced editors for advice before uploading. People will be happy to assist you at  . Thank you.
 This is the data that will be submitted to upload:
 
 
 
 Your file is being uploaded. 
 This might take a minute or two, depending on the size of the file and the speed of your internet connection.
 Once uploading is completed, you will find your new file at this link:
 
 Your file has been uploaded successfully and can now be found here:
 
 Please follow the link and check that the image description page has all the information you meant to include.
 If you want to change the description, just go to the image page, click the "edit" tab at the top of the page and edit just as you would edit any other page. Do not go through this upload form again, unless you want to replace the actual file with a new version.
 To insert this file into an article, you may want to use code similar to the following:
 If you wish to make a link to the file in text, without actually showing the image, for instance when discussing the image on a talk page, you can use the following (mark the ":" after the initial brackets!):
 See   for more detailed help on how to insert and position images in pages.
 Please leave your feedback, comments, bug reports or suggestions on the  .
 


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:General_disclaimer&action=edit

Content: You do not have permission to edit this page, for the following reason:
 
 Return to  .

URL: https://war.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 
  -   -   -   -  
 WARAY GINHAHATAG NGA GARANTIYA HAN WIKIPEDIA HIN PAGKAHINGPIT HAN SULOD DINHE.
 An   usa nga onlayn nga buklad-hin-sulod nga ensayklopediya, nga buot sidngon, usa nga boluntaryo nga pagkatitirok hin mga tawo ngan grupo nga naghihimo hin kuruhaan hin hibaro hin katawhan para ha ngatanan.  An kahimo hini natugot hin bisan hin-o nga konektado ha Internet ngan mayda World Wide Web nga pandalikyat nga magliwat han sulod nga mabibilngan dinhe.  Amo nga alayon pagpasagdon nga waray butang nga mabibilngan dinhe nga masisiring nga ginsubay hin mga propesyonal nga maaram han ispisipiko nga larangan hin kahibaro nga kinahanglan nga matagan ka hin hingpit, sakto o kundi man matataporan nga impormasyon hin bisan ano nga iristoryahon ha  
  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  . 


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UrlShortener&url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fw%2Findex.php%3Ftitle%3DSpecial%3AUserLogin%26centralAuthAutologinTried%3D1%26centralAuthError%3DNot%2Bcentrally%2Blogged%2Bin%26returnto%3DArtificial%2Bintelligence

Content: 

URL: https://war.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 
  -   -   -   -  
 WARAY GINHAHATAG NGA GARANTIYA HAN WIKIPEDIA HIN PAGKAHINGPIT HAN SULOD DINHE.
 An   usa nga onlayn nga buklad-hin-sulod nga ensayklopediya, nga buot sidngon, usa nga boluntaryo nga pagkatitirok hin mga tawo ngan grupo nga naghihimo hin kuruhaan hin hibaro hin katawhan para ha ngatanan.  An kahimo hini natugot hin bisan hin-o nga konektado ha Internet ngan mayda World Wide Web nga pandalikyat nga magliwat han sulod nga mabibilngan dinhe.  Amo nga alayon pagpasagdon nga waray butang nga mabibilngan dinhe nga masisiring nga ginsubay hin mga propesyonal nga maaram han ispisipiko nga larangan hin kahibaro nga kinahanglan nga matagan ka hin hingpit, sakto o kundi man matataporan nga impormasyon hin bisan ano nga iristoryahon ha  
  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  . 


URL: https://vls.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Aansprakelekeid

Content: Ier stoan de zogenoamde   en ander juridische tekstn.
 De Wikipedia es een gemêenschapsproject dat gemakt wordt door e hêel verscheidn publiek.
Foutn wordn normoal geziene zêre gecorrigeerd ma mocht je toch ieverst 'n twuk zien da nie hêel juste es, meugt ge da alsan laatn weetn ip het  -blad die by het betreffnde artikel hôort.
 Ge meugt het ôok alsan zelve verandern in 't artikel.
 De vrywilligers die meewerkn an den encyclopedie ('t publiek, dus ôok gyzelve) aanveirdn   vo de justeid van d'artikels. De informatie die ier te vindn es, is hêlegans gratis en vry, moa wel te gebruukn ip eigen risico.
 Een oantal gebrukers (de zogenaamde  ) ein extra meuglikeedn ip technisch niveau. Zudder kunn bloadn beveiligen, wegdoene en de schryfrechtn van gebrukers anpassen, meuglikeedn die geweune gebrukers nie ein.
Deze groep vrywilligers zyn niet de eigenoars of webmasters van Wikipedia, 't zyn êerder de gastn die instaan vo het ounderoud.
 Ip juridisch vlak ein gebrukers (anonieme, geweune en sysops) gin aansprakelikeid, allêne de eigenoare van Wikipedia, de  , es de eindverantwoordelikke. 
 Mocht er een probleem zyn, pakt dan êest contact ip met vls.wikipedia (byvôorbeeld êen van de sysops). 
Ge kunt ôok e klacht verzenden, in 't Iengels, noa:
 Olle tekst, ofbeeldingn en andere media volt ounder de  -licentie.
 Zie  .


URL: https://wuu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:%E5%85%8D%E8%B4%A3%E5%A3%B0%E6%98%8E

Content: 是内容开放个在线个百科全书，伊是由个人搭仔团体志愿合作开发个人类知识个共有资源。箇只计划个体系允许任何人通过网络来修改其内容，故咾请注意侬勒拉箇埭寻着个内容，並弗一定畀任何相关领域个专家或者专业人员审查过，因此维基百科呒没办法保证畀侬看个信息是完善、正确、可靠个。
 箇並弗指侬勒拉维基百科浪寻弗着有价值个信息搭仔正确个信息，只是 。任何特定条目个内容侪可能勒拉最近畀人修改脱、破坏脱或者畀对相关领域认知状况弗一致个人改过。请注意，大多数百科全书同参考作品也有差弗多个 。
 阿拉社群当中活跃个编写人会得用 搭仔 工具来监视新个搭仔更改个内容。必过，维基百科个内容并呒没普遍接受同行评审；虽然讲读者好修改错误或者参与到非正式个同行评审当中去，伊拉並呒没法律义务箇能介做，故咾侬勒拉箇埭看到个获得个所有信息侪弗对或是针对特定目的或是一般使用个适用性提供任何暗示个保证。即使讲有星条目已经通过同行评审或者通过典范条目等个评选，伊拉还是咾有可能勒拉侬浏览之前刚刚修改过。
 
 请确认侬晓得，侬勒拉箇埭获得个信息侪是自由个、免费个，任何人搭侬呒没契约或者合同关系，无论是本站个用户、所有人、服务器提供商、任何维基百科参与个人自家、管理员，还是其他任何跟本计划搭仔相关计划有直接或者间接关系个个人或者团体。勒拉有限许可下头，侬好随便从本站拷贝任何内容，但箇並弗表示维基百科或者伊个代理人、成员、组织人或者其他用户对伊承担任何契约性个或者契约以外个责任。
 除脱知识共享 — 署名-相同方式共享 4.0 国际协议（CC-BY-SA）搭仔GNU自由文档许可证（GFDL），侬搭维基百科之间呒没协议跟使用或者修改箇星信息有关系；维基百科浪也呒没任何人应该对修改、编辑或者移除脱侬勒拉维基百科浪或者相关计划浪张贴个任何信息负责。
 维基百科条目里向用个或者提到个任何商标（包括服务商标、集体商标），或者是设计权搭仔提到个其他权利，侪属于渠对应所有人个财产。维基百科条目个原作者勒拉箇埭根据CC-BY-SA搭仔GFDL许可方案来用箇星商标，箇个意思並弗是侬也好做相同或者类似目的个使用。除脱另外有说明，维基百科或者维基媒体基金会跟任何箇类权利个所有人之间弗会有关系，故咾也呒办法授权侬用任何受到保护个内容。侬勒拉用任何箇种或者相似个无形财产个辰光要自家承担风险。
 维基百科包括好确认身份个活拉个或者最近过世个人个传记。勒拉某些司法管理区，有关 个法律限制随便用活拉个人或者最近故脱个人个照片，独立于箇星图个著作权状态。勒拉用箇星类型个内容之前，请确保跟你个目的相关个法律啊是真个畀侬用箇星内容个权利。侬需要对确保弗侵犯其他人个人格权全权负责。
 请注意，侬拿侬拉箇埭寻着个信息发布出去有可能会得违反侬勒拉个国家或者司法管理区个法律。维基百科个数据库侪存拉美国个服务器里向，故咾所有内容侪受到当地法律搭仔美国联邦法律个保护。侬勒拉个国家或者司法管辖区个法律有可能呒没对相同种类个言话或者发行进行保护。维基百科並弗鼓励任何人违反法律，故咾假使侬链接到箇只域名或者使用、拷贝、转载本站个信息，维基百科呒办法为可能个违反法律个做法负责。
 假使讲侬到箇埭个想法是看到具体个建议（比方讲勒拉医学、法律或者风险管理方面咾啥），请侬去咨询一名注册或者勒拉目标领域里向有能力个专业人士。


URL: https://wuu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:%E5%85%8D%E8%B4%A3%E5%A3%B0%E6%98%8E

Content: 是内容开放个在线个百科全书，伊是由个人搭仔团体志愿合作开发个人类知识个共有资源。箇只计划个体系允许任何人通过网络来修改其内容，故咾请注意侬勒拉箇埭寻着个内容，並弗一定畀任何相关领域个专家或者专业人员审查过，因此维基百科呒没办法保证畀侬看个信息是完善、正确、可靠个。
 箇並弗指侬勒拉维基百科浪寻弗着有价值个信息搭仔正确个信息，只是 。任何特定条目个内容侪可能勒拉最近畀人修改脱、破坏脱或者畀对相关领域认知状况弗一致个人改过。请注意，大多数百科全书同参考作品也有差弗多个 。
 阿拉社群当中活跃个编写人会得用 搭仔 工具来监视新个搭仔更改个内容。必过，维基百科个内容并呒没普遍接受同行评审；虽然讲读者好修改错误或者参与到非正式个同行评审当中去，伊拉並呒没法律义务箇能介做，故咾侬勒拉箇埭看到个获得个所有信息侪弗对或是针对特定目的或是一般使用个适用性提供任何暗示个保证。即使讲有星条目已经通过同行评审或者通过典范条目等个评选，伊拉还是咾有可能勒拉侬浏览之前刚刚修改过。
 
 请确认侬晓得，侬勒拉箇埭获得个信息侪是自由个、免费个，任何人搭侬呒没契约或者合同关系，无论是本站个用户、所有人、服务器提供商、任何维基百科参与个人自家、管理员，还是其他任何跟本计划搭仔相关计划有直接或者间接关系个个人或者团体。勒拉有限许可下头，侬好随便从本站拷贝任何内容，但箇並弗表示维基百科或者伊个代理人、成员、组织人或者其他用户对伊承担任何契约性个或者契约以外个责任。
 除脱知识共享 — 署名-相同方式共享 4.0 国际协议（CC-BY-SA）搭仔GNU自由文档许可证（GFDL），侬搭维基百科之间呒没协议跟使用或者修改箇星信息有关系；维基百科浪也呒没任何人应该对修改、编辑或者移除脱侬勒拉维基百科浪或者相关计划浪张贴个任何信息负责。
 维基百科条目里向用个或者提到个任何商标（包括服务商标、集体商标），或者是设计权搭仔提到个其他权利，侪属于渠对应所有人个财产。维基百科条目个原作者勒拉箇埭根据CC-BY-SA搭仔GFDL许可方案来用箇星商标，箇个意思並弗是侬也好做相同或者类似目的个使用。除脱另外有说明，维基百科或者维基媒体基金会跟任何箇类权利个所有人之间弗会有关系，故咾也呒办法授权侬用任何受到保护个内容。侬勒拉用任何箇种或者相似个无形财产个辰光要自家承担风险。
 维基百科包括好确认身份个活拉个或者最近过世个人个传记。勒拉某些司法管理区，有关 个法律限制随便用活拉个人或者最近故脱个人个照片，独立于箇星图个著作权状态。勒拉用箇星类型个内容之前，请确保跟你个目的相关个法律啊是真个畀侬用箇星内容个权利。侬需要对确保弗侵犯其他人个人格权全权负责。
 请注意，侬拿侬拉箇埭寻着个信息发布出去有可能会得违反侬勒拉个国家或者司法管理区个法律。维基百科个数据库侪存拉美国个服务器里向，故咾所有内容侪受到当地法律搭仔美国联邦法律个保护。侬勒拉个国家或者司法管辖区个法律有可能呒没对相同种类个言话或者发行进行保护。维基百科並弗鼓励任何人违反法律，故咾假使侬链接到箇只域名或者使用、拷贝、转载本站个信息，维基百科呒办法为可能个违反法律个做法负责。
 假使讲侬到箇埭个想法是看到具体个建议（比方讲勒拉医学、法律或者风险管理方面咾啥），请侬去咨询一名注册或者勒拉目标领域里向有能力个专业人士。


URL: https://vls.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Aansprakelekeid

Content: Ier stoan de zogenoamde   en ander juridische tekstn.
 De Wikipedia es een gemêenschapsproject dat gemakt wordt door e hêel verscheidn publiek.
Foutn wordn normoal geziene zêre gecorrigeerd ma mocht je toch ieverst 'n twuk zien da nie hêel juste es, meugt ge da alsan laatn weetn ip het  -blad die by het betreffnde artikel hôort.
 Ge meugt het ôok alsan zelve verandern in 't artikel.
 De vrywilligers die meewerkn an den encyclopedie ('t publiek, dus ôok gyzelve) aanveirdn   vo de justeid van d'artikels. De informatie die ier te vindn es, is hêlegans gratis en vry, moa wel te gebruukn ip eigen risico.
 Een oantal gebrukers (de zogenaamde  ) ein extra meuglikeedn ip technisch niveau. Zudder kunn bloadn beveiligen, wegdoene en de schryfrechtn van gebrukers anpassen, meuglikeedn die geweune gebrukers nie ein.
Deze groep vrywilligers zyn niet de eigenoars of webmasters van Wikipedia, 't zyn êerder de gastn die instaan vo het ounderoud.
 Ip juridisch vlak ein gebrukers (anonieme, geweune en sysops) gin aansprakelikeid, allêne de eigenoare van Wikipedia, de  , es de eindverantwoordelikke. 
 Mocht er een probleem zyn, pakt dan êest contact ip met vls.wikipedia (byvôorbeeld êen van de sysops). 
Ge kunt ôok e klacht verzenden, in 't Iengels, noa:
 Olle tekst, ofbeeldingn en andere media volt ounder de  -licentie.
 Zie  .


URL: https://fiu-vro.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Hoiatuisi

Content:  
 Tast lövvät mynõq  


URL: https://vo.wikipedia.org/wiki/V%C3%BCkiped:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://fiu-vro.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Hoiatuisi

Content:  
 Tast lövvät mynõq  


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:File_upload_wizard

Content: Thank you for offering to contribute an image or other media file for use on Wikipedia. This wizard will guide you through a questionnaire prompting you for the appropriate copyright and sourcing information for each file. Please ensure you understand   and the   before proceeding.
 
 Uploads to  
 
 
 Uploads locally to Wikipedia; must comply with the   criteria
 
 
 Sorry, in order to use this uploading script, JavaScript must be enabled. You can still use the plain   page to upload files to the English Wikipedia without JavaScript.
 
 Sorry, in order to use this uploading script and to upload files, you need to be logged in with your named account. Please   and then try again.
 
 Sorry, in order to upload files on the English Wikipedia, you need to have a  . Normally, your account will become confirmed automatically once you have made 10 edits and four days have passed since you created it.     
 You may already be able to upload files on the  , but you can't do it on the English Wikipedia just yet. If the file you want to upload has a free license, please go to Commons and upload it there.
  if you don't want to wait until you are autoconfirmed, you may ask somebody else to upload a file for you at  . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sorry, a few special characters and character combinations cannot be used in the filename for technical reasons. This goes especially for   and  . Your filename has been modified to avoid these. Please check if it is okay now.
 The filename you chose seems to be very short, or overly generic. Please don't use:
 
 If you upload your file with this name, you will be masking the existing file and make it inaccessible. Your new file will be displayed everywhere the existing file was previously used.
 This should not be done, except in very rare exceptional cases.
 Please don't upload your file under this name, unless you seriously know what you are doing. Choose a different name for your new file instead.
 
 If you upload your file with this name, you will be overwriting the existing file. Your new file will be displayed everywhere the existing file was previously used. Please don't do this, unless you have a good reason to:
 It is very important that you read through the following options and questions, and provide all required information truthfully and carefully. 
 Wikipedia loves free files. However, we would love it even more if you uploaded them on our sister project, the  .
Files uploaded on Commons can be used immediately here on Wikipedia as well as on all its sister projects. Uploading files on Commons works just the same as here. Your Wikipedia account will automatically work on Commons too. 
   
 However, if you prefer to do it here instead, you may go ahead with this form. You can also first use this form to collect the information about your file and then send it to Commons from here.
 Please note that by "entirely self-made" we really mean just that. 
  use this section for any of the following:
 Editors who falsely declare such items as their "own work"  .
 Use this   if there is an   in the source. 
 The website must explicitly say that the image is released under a license that allows free re-use for any purpose, e.g. the Creative Commons Attribution license. You must be able to point exactly to where it says this.
 If the source website doesn't say so explicitly, please  .
  means that nobody owns any copyrights on this work. It does   mean simply that it is freely viewable somewhere on the web or that it has been widely used by others. 
 This is   for images you simply found somewhere on the web. Most images on the web are under copyright and belong to somebody, even if you believe the owner won't care about that copyright. If it is in the public domain, you must be able to point to an actual law that makes it so. If you can't point to such a law but merely found this image somewhere, then  
  Please remember that you will need to demonstrate that:
 This file will be used in the following article:
 
    – article okay.
   
 The article   could not be found.
 Please check the spelling, and make sure you enter the name of an existing article in which you will include this file.
 If this is an article you are only planning to write, please write it first and upload the file afterwards.
   
 The page   is not in the main article namespace. Non-free files can only be used in mainspace article pages, not on a user page, talk page, template, etc.
 Please upload this file only if it is going to be used in an actual article.
 If this page is an article draft in your user space, we're sorry, but we must ask you to wait until the page is ready and has been moved into mainspace, and only upload the file after that.
   
 The page   is not a real article, but a disambiguation page pointing to a number of other pages.
 Please check and enter the exact title of the actual target article you meant.
 If neither of these two statements applies, then please  
 This section is   for images used merely to illustrate an article about a person or thing, showing what that person or thing look like.
 In view of this, please explain how the use of this file will be minimal.
 Well, we're very sorry, but if you're not sure about this file's copyright status, or if it doesn't fit into any of the groups above, then:
 
 Really, please don't. Even if you think it would make for a great addition to an article. We really take these copyright rules very seriously on Wikipedia. Note that media is   to be fully-copyrighted unless shown otherwise; the burden is on the uploader.
 In particular, please don't upload:
 If you are in any doubt, please ask some experienced editors for advice before uploading. People will be happy to assist you at  . Thank you.
 This is the data that will be submitted to upload:
 
 
 
 Your file is being uploaded. 
 This might take a minute or two, depending on the size of the file and the speed of your internet connection.
 Once uploading is completed, you will find your new file at this link:
 
 Your file has been uploaded successfully and can now be found here:
 
 Please follow the link and check that the image description page has all the information you meant to include.
 If you want to change the description, just go to the image page, click the "edit" tab at the top of the page and edit just as you would edit any other page. Do not go through this upload form again, unless you want to replace the actual file with a new version.
 To insert this file into an article, you may want to use code similar to the following:
 If you wish to make a link to the file in text, without actually showing the image, for instance when discussing the image on a talk page, you can use the following (mark the ":" after the initial brackets!):
 See   for more detailed help on how to insert and position images in pages.
 Please leave your feedback, comments, bug reports or suggestions on the  .
 


URL: https://vo.wikipedia.org/wiki/V%C3%BCkiped:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&centralAuthAutologinTried=1&centralAuthError=Not+centrally+logged+in&returnto=Artificial+intelligence

Content: This page is not available in other languages.

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&returnto=Artificial+intelligence&returntoquery=centralAuthAutologinTried%3D1%26centralAuthError%3DNot%2Bcentrally%2Blogged%2Bin

Content: 

URL: https://vi.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Ph%E1%BB%A7_nh%E1%BA%ADn_chung

Content:  là một bách khoa toàn thư trực tuyến với nội dung mở nhờ sự hợp tác giữa rất nhiều người, có nghĩa là một tập thể tình nguyện bao gồm các cá nhân và nhóm người cùng xây dựng một kho kiến thức chung của nhân loại. Cấu trúc của dự án cho phép bất cứ ai chỉ cần kết nối với Internet là đã có thể sửa đổi được nội dung. Vì thế, xin hiểu rằng những gì tìm được ở đây không nhất thiết là đã được những nhà chuyên môn thẩm định nhằm cung cấp cho bạn những thông tin hoàn hảo, chính xác và đáng tin cậy.
 Nói như vậy không có nghĩa là bạn sẽ không tìm thấy những thông tin giá trị và chính xác từ Wikipedia; phần lớn thông tin sẽ là chính xác. Dù vậy,  . Nội dung của bất kỳ bài viết nào đều có thể bị sửa đổi, phá hoại hoặc thay thế bởi những người không thuộc về chuyên môn. Lưu ý rằng hầu hết bách khoa toàn thư và trang tham khảo khác cũng có những lời phủ nhận.
 Cộng đồng thành viên năng động của chúng tôi sử dụng những công cụ như   và   để theo dõi những nội dung mới hoặc vừa thay đổi. Tuy vậy, Wikipedia không được thẩm định chéo một cách nhất quán; tuy độc giả có thể sửa các lỗi sai hoặc bắt tay   một cách tự nhiên, họ không hề bị ràng buộc trách nhiệm pháp lý nào khi làm như vậy và do đó tất cả thông tin đọc được ở đây đều không được đảm bảo sẽ phù hợp cho bất kỳ mục đích nào hoặc hình thức sử dụng như thế nào. Thậm chí những bài viết đã được hiệu đính ở mức độ thẩm định chéo không chính thức hay đã thông qua quy trình   vẫn có thể bị sửa đổi theo cách không thích hợp, có thể là ngay trước khi bạn xem chúng.
 
 Xin hãy chắc chắn là bạn hiểu rằng những thông tin được cung cấp ở đây được cung cấp một cách tự do, và rằng không có bất cứ một thoả ước hay hợp đồng gì được tạo ra giữa bạn và người sở hữu cũng như người sử dụng trang web, người sở hữu các máy chủ chứa nó, từng cá nhân cộng tác viên của Wikipedia, các quản trị viên, bảo quản viên dự án hoặc bất cứ ai có bất kì   gì đến dự này này hoặc các dự án chị em, để bạn có thể trực tiếp kiện họ. Bạn đang được trao một li-xăng có hạn chế để sao chép bất kì thứ gì từ trang web này; nó không tạo ra hoặc hàm ý bất cứ một khế ước hoặc khế ước phụ về trách nhiệm pháp lý cho phía   hoặc bất cứ đại diện, thành viên, thành lập viên hoặc những người dùng khác.
  liên quan đến việc sử dụng và chỉnh sửa thông tin này, theo như   (CC BY-SA) và   (GFDL); không có bất kỳ ai tại Wikipedia chịu trách nhiệm cho việc có ai đó thay, sửa, điều chỉnh hoặc xóa bỏ bất kỳ thông tin nào mà bạn đăng nó lên Wikipedia hoặc bất kỳ dự án đi chung với Wikipedia.
 Bất cứ các thương hiệu, dấu hiệu dịch vụ, dấu hiệu tập thể, quyền thiết kế hoặc các quyền tương tự được đề cập, sử dụng hoặc trích dẫn trong các bài viết của bách khoa toàn thư Wikipedia, đều thuộc về chủ sở hữu tương ứng. Việc sử dụng chúng ở đây không có nghĩa là bạn có thể dùng chúng cho bất cứ mục đích nào khác cách dùng để chuyển tải thông tin y hệt hoặc tương tự với dự tính của tác giả gốc của các bài viết Wikipedia theo hệ thống các giấy phép CC BY-SA và GFDL. Nếu không đề cập khác đi thì các trang Wikipedia và Wikimedia không được bảo trợ hoặc có liên kết với chủ nhân của các bản quyền trên và cũng do đó Wikipedia không thể cho phép bất cứ quyền nào sử dụng các tài liệu đã được bảo hộ. Bạn phải chấp nhận mạo hiểm khi sử dụng các tài sản vô hình như vậy hoặc tương tự như vậy.
 Wikipedia có chứa những thông tin trong đó miêu tả một người cụ thể vẫn còn sống hoặc vừa mới qua đời. Việc sử dụng hình ảnh của các cá nhân đang còn sống hoặc vừa mới mất, trong một số bộ luật, bị luật pháp hạn chế do có liên quan đến  , hoàn toàn độc lập với tình trạng bản quyền của hình ảnh đó. Trước khi sử dụng những loại nội dung này, xin hãy đảm bảo rằng luật pháp cho phép bạn sử dụng chúng theo đúng tình huống mà bạn dự định sử dụng.   
 Việc xuất bản những thông tin tìm thấy tại Wikipedia có thể vi phạm luật pháp của quốc gia hoặc phạm vi tài phán của nơi bạn đang xem thông tin này. Cơ sở dữ liệu của Wikipedia được lưu trữ trong máy chủ đặt tại  , và được duy trì dưới sự bảo hộ của luật pháp liên bang và địa phương. Luật pháp tại quốc gia hoặc địa phương của bạn có thể không bảo hộ hoặc cho phép những loại phát ngôn hoặc phân bổ như vậy. Wikipedia không khuyến khích sự vi phạm bất kỳ luật pháp nào; và không thể chịu trách nhiệm cho bất kỳ sự vi phạm nào như vậy, về việc bạn liên kết đến tên miền này hoặc sử dụng, tái sử dụng, hoặc tái xuất bản thông tin lưu giữ tại đây.
 Nếu bạn cần lời khuyên cụ thể (ví dụ như về y tế, pháp luật, tài chính, hoặc quản lý rủi ro) xin hãy tìm một chuyên gia có bằng cấp hoặc có kiến thức về lĩnh vực đó.


URL: https://vi.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Ph%E1%BB%A7_nh%E1%BA%ADn_chung

Content:  là một bách khoa toàn thư trực tuyến với nội dung mở nhờ sự hợp tác giữa rất nhiều người, có nghĩa là một tập thể tình nguyện bao gồm các cá nhân và nhóm người cùng xây dựng một kho kiến thức chung của nhân loại. Cấu trúc của dự án cho phép bất cứ ai chỉ cần kết nối với Internet là đã có thể sửa đổi được nội dung. Vì thế, xin hiểu rằng những gì tìm được ở đây không nhất thiết là đã được những nhà chuyên môn thẩm định nhằm cung cấp cho bạn những thông tin hoàn hảo, chính xác và đáng tin cậy.
 Nói như vậy không có nghĩa là bạn sẽ không tìm thấy những thông tin giá trị và chính xác từ Wikipedia; phần lớn thông tin sẽ là chính xác. Dù vậy,  . Nội dung của bất kỳ bài viết nào đều có thể bị sửa đổi, phá hoại hoặc thay thế bởi những người không thuộc về chuyên môn. Lưu ý rằng hầu hết bách khoa toàn thư và trang tham khảo khác cũng có những lời phủ nhận.
 Cộng đồng thành viên năng động của chúng tôi sử dụng những công cụ như   và   để theo dõi những nội dung mới hoặc vừa thay đổi. Tuy vậy, Wikipedia không được thẩm định chéo một cách nhất quán; tuy độc giả có thể sửa các lỗi sai hoặc bắt tay   một cách tự nhiên, họ không hề bị ràng buộc trách nhiệm pháp lý nào khi làm như vậy và do đó tất cả thông tin đọc được ở đây đều không được đảm bảo sẽ phù hợp cho bất kỳ mục đích nào hoặc hình thức sử dụng như thế nào. Thậm chí những bài viết đã được hiệu đính ở mức độ thẩm định chéo không chính thức hay đã thông qua quy trình   vẫn có thể bị sửa đổi theo cách không thích hợp, có thể là ngay trước khi bạn xem chúng.
 
 Xin hãy chắc chắn là bạn hiểu rằng những thông tin được cung cấp ở đây được cung cấp một cách tự do, và rằng không có bất cứ một thoả ước hay hợp đồng gì được tạo ra giữa bạn và người sở hữu cũng như người sử dụng trang web, người sở hữu các máy chủ chứa nó, từng cá nhân cộng tác viên của Wikipedia, các quản trị viên, bảo quản viên dự án hoặc bất cứ ai có bất kì   gì đến dự này này hoặc các dự án chị em, để bạn có thể trực tiếp kiện họ. Bạn đang được trao một li-xăng có hạn chế để sao chép bất kì thứ gì từ trang web này; nó không tạo ra hoặc hàm ý bất cứ một khế ước hoặc khế ước phụ về trách nhiệm pháp lý cho phía   hoặc bất cứ đại diện, thành viên, thành lập viên hoặc những người dùng khác.
  liên quan đến việc sử dụng và chỉnh sửa thông tin này, theo như   (CC BY-SA) và   (GFDL); không có bất kỳ ai tại Wikipedia chịu trách nhiệm cho việc có ai đó thay, sửa, điều chỉnh hoặc xóa bỏ bất kỳ thông tin nào mà bạn đăng nó lên Wikipedia hoặc bất kỳ dự án đi chung với Wikipedia.
 Bất cứ các thương hiệu, dấu hiệu dịch vụ, dấu hiệu tập thể, quyền thiết kế hoặc các quyền tương tự được đề cập, sử dụng hoặc trích dẫn trong các bài viết của bách khoa toàn thư Wikipedia, đều thuộc về chủ sở hữu tương ứng. Việc sử dụng chúng ở đây không có nghĩa là bạn có thể dùng chúng cho bất cứ mục đích nào khác cách dùng để chuyển tải thông tin y hệt hoặc tương tự với dự tính của tác giả gốc của các bài viết Wikipedia theo hệ thống các giấy phép CC BY-SA và GFDL. Nếu không đề cập khác đi thì các trang Wikipedia và Wikimedia không được bảo trợ hoặc có liên kết với chủ nhân của các bản quyền trên và cũng do đó Wikipedia không thể cho phép bất cứ quyền nào sử dụng các tài liệu đã được bảo hộ. Bạn phải chấp nhận mạo hiểm khi sử dụng các tài sản vô hình như vậy hoặc tương tự như vậy.
 Wikipedia có chứa những thông tin trong đó miêu tả một người cụ thể vẫn còn sống hoặc vừa mới qua đời. Việc sử dụng hình ảnh của các cá nhân đang còn sống hoặc vừa mới mất, trong một số bộ luật, bị luật pháp hạn chế do có liên quan đến  , hoàn toàn độc lập với tình trạng bản quyền của hình ảnh đó. Trước khi sử dụng những loại nội dung này, xin hãy đảm bảo rằng luật pháp cho phép bạn sử dụng chúng theo đúng tình huống mà bạn dự định sử dụng.   
 Việc xuất bản những thông tin tìm thấy tại Wikipedia có thể vi phạm luật pháp của quốc gia hoặc phạm vi tài phán của nơi bạn đang xem thông tin này. Cơ sở dữ liệu của Wikipedia được lưu trữ trong máy chủ đặt tại  , và được duy trì dưới sự bảo hộ của luật pháp liên bang và địa phương. Luật pháp tại quốc gia hoặc địa phương của bạn có thể không bảo hộ hoặc cho phép những loại phát ngôn hoặc phân bổ như vậy. Wikipedia không khuyến khích sự vi phạm bất kỳ luật pháp nào; và không thể chịu trách nhiệm cho bất kỳ sự vi phạm nào như vậy, về việc bạn liên kết đến tên miền này hoặc sử dụng, tái sử dụng, hoặc tái xuất bản thông tin lưu giữ tại đây.
 Nếu bạn cần lời khuyên cụ thể (ví dụ như về y tế, pháp luật, tài chính, hoặc quản lý rủi ro) xin hãy tìm một chuyên gia có bằng cấp hoặc có kiến thức về lĩnh vực đó.


URL: https://ug.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://ur.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%DB%8C%DA%A9%DB%8C%D9%BE%DB%8C%DA%88%DB%8C%D8%A7:%D8%B9%D9%85%D9%88%D9%85%DB%8C_%D8%A7%D8%B8%DB%81%D8%A7%D8%B1_%D9%84%D8%A7%D8%AA%D8%B9%D9%84%D9%82%DB%8C

Content: 
 ویکیپیڈیا کو تجارتی غرض سے استعمال میں نہ لائیں،  نہ اس تعلق سے کوئی رائے یا مشورہ تحریر کریں اور نہ ہی کوئی اشتہار دیں،  اگر کسی مضمون یا صفحہ سے یا مکمل ویکیپیڈیا کے کسی بھی اقتباس سے از خود کسی تجارتی اشیاء کی تعریف یا خوبیاں بیان ہوتی نظر آتی ہو تو انھیں مثال بنا کر پیش نہ کریں اور نہ ہی تنقید کا نشانہ بنائیں،  بلکہ اس کی اصلاح کی کوشش کریں۔
 ویکیپیڈیا پر ایسا مواد موجود ہوسکتاہے جو کسی زندہ یا حال ہی میں فوت شدہ شخصیت کے بارے میں ہو۔ زندہ یا حال ہی میں فوت شدہ شخصیات کی تصاویر کا استعمال ان کے حقوق نشر و اشاعت سے قطع نظر بعض ممالک میں قانون حقوق شخصیت کے تحت محدود و پابند ہو سکتا ہے۔
 اگر آپ کو مخصوص مشورے کی ضرورت ہے (جیسے طبی، قانونی، مالی یا پر خطر انتظامی) تو متعلقہ شعبے کے کسی سند یافتہ ماہر سے رابطہ کریں۔


URL: https://uk.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D1%96%D0%BA%D1%96%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D1%96%D1%8F:%D0%92%D1%96%D0%B4%D0%BC%D0%BE%D0%B2%D0%B0_%D0%B2%D1%96%D0%B4_%D0%B2%D1%96%D0%B4%D0%BF%D0%BE%D0%B2%D1%96%D0%B4%D0%B0%D0%BB%D1%8C%D0%BD%D0%BE%D1%81%D1%82%D1%96

Content: Вікіпедія — це онлайн-енциклопедія з відкритим вмістом, яку створює спільнота; інакше кажучи, це — об'єднання на волонтерських засадах окремих осіб та груп, що працюють над створенням загального ресурсу знань людства. Структура проєкту дозволяє змінювати його вміст будь-кому, хто має доступ до інтернету. Будь ласка, майте на увазі, що ніщо з того, що можна знайти тут, не отримало формальної експертної рецензії, необхідної для надання Вам повної, точної чи достовірної інформації.
 Однак це не означає, що Ви не знайдете цінної й точної інформації у Вікіпедії; у більшості випадків інформація, розміщена у Вікіпедії, є цілком достовірною. Та втім,   Вміст будь-якої статті Вікіпедії на момент прочитання вже міг хтось змінити, такий вміст міг піддатися вандалізму, чи його міг переписати хтось, чия точка зору не відповідає поглядам, прийнятим у відповідній науковій чи іншій галузі. Зверніть увагу на те, що більшість інших енциклопедій та інших подібних джерел інформації (у тому числі й  ) теж мають відмову від відповідальності.
 Наша активна спільнота редакторів користується такими інструментами, як   та  , щоб відстежувати появу нового контенту і будь-які зміни вже наявного. Однак у Вікіпедії немає механізму рівномірної перевірки інформації; і тоді як читачі можуть виправляти помилки в статтях і навіть час від часу робити неформальні  , у них немає жодних юридичних обов'язків у цьому плані, а тому достовірність чи прийнятність для будь-якого використання інформації, опублікованої на цьому сайті, не має жодних гарантій. І навіть ті статті, які було піддано неформальному експертному рецензуванню, чи які отримали статус  , згодом хтось може відредагувати неналежним чином — навіть за секунду до того, як Ви їх переглядатимете.
 
 Будь ласка, впевніться, що Ви усвідомлюєте, що інформація, яку надає Вікіпедія, надається вільно, і що між Вами та власниками чи користувачами цього сайту, власниками серверів, на яких його розміщено, окремими дописувачами Вікіпедії, будь-якими адміністраторами проєкту чи будь-якими іншими особами,   із цим проєктом чи його сестринськими проєктами, не створюється жодної угоди чи контракту, які б давали Вам змогу висувати проти них будь-які юридичні звинувачення. Ви отримуєте обмежену ліцензію на копіювання будь-якої інформації з цього сайту; вона не створює та не передбачає можливості накладення будь-яких контрактних чи надконтрактних юридичних зобов'язань ані на Вікіпедію, ані на будь-яких її агентів, учасників, організаторів чи інших користувачів.
 Немає жодної   стосовно Вашого способу використання чи будь-яких змін інформації, розміщеної в ній, окрім умов, зазначених у ліцензіях   (CC BY-SA) та   (GFDL); також ніхто у Вікіпедії не несе жодної юридичної відповідальності за будь-яку зміну, редагування, модифікацію чи вилучення будь-якої інформації, розміщеної Вами у Вікіпедії чи в одному з пов'язаних з нею проєктів.
 Будь-які торгові знаки, знаки обслуговування, колективні знаки, права на дизайн чи подібні права, які згадуються, використовуються чи цитуються в статтях Вікіпедії, є власністю їхніх відповідних правовласників. Їхнє використання тут не означає, що Ви можете використовувати їх із будь-якою метою, яка б відрізнялася від такого ж або подібного інформаційного використання, яке мали на меті оригінальні автори відповідних статей Вікіпедії за умови дотримання схеми ліцензування через CC BY-SA та GFDL. Якщо не зазначено протилежне, сайти Вікіпедії та Вікімедіа ані не підтримуються, ані не є афілійованими з будь-якими правовласниками, а тому Вікіпедія не може надавати будь-яких прав на використання будь-яких матеріалів, захищених авторських правом. Якщо Ви використовуєте будь-які такі чи подібні об'єкти нематеріальної власності, Ви робите це виключно на свій власний ризик.
 Вікіпедія містить матеріали, які можуть зображати впізнаваних осіб — живих, чи недавно померлих. Використання зображень живих чи недавно померлих осіб у деяких юрисдикціях обмежується законами, які стосуються прав особистості і є незалежними від статусу авторських прав на зображення. Перед тим, як використовувати контент такого типу, будь ласка, переконайтесь, що Ви маєте право на його використання згідно із законами, застосовними в таких випадках використання, який Ви маєте на меті.  
 Публікація інформації, яку Ви знайшли у Вікіпедії, може порушувати закони тієї країни чи юрисдикції, з якої Ви переглядаєте цю інформацію. База даних Вікіпедії розміщена на серверах у Сполучених Штатах Америки та обслуговується з урахуванням обмежень, передбачених локальними та федеральними законами. Закони Вашої країни чи юрисдикції можуть не захищати чи не дозволяти таких способів висловлення чи поширення інформації. Вікіпедія не заохочує до порушення будь-яких законів і не може нести відповідальності за будь-які порушення таких законів, якщо Ви посилатиметесь на цей домен чи будете використовувати, відтворювати або перевидавати інформацію, яка міститься на цьому сайті.
 Якщо Вам потрібна специфічна порада (наприклад, медична, юридична, фінансова консультація або порада щодо управління ризиком), будь ласка, зверніться до професіонала, який мав би ліцензію чи достатні знання для надання відповідних послуг у потрібній галузі.
 


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia_talk:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 The last sentence of "Jurisdiction and legality of content" uses the Oxford comma while the parenthetical in "Not professional advice" appears to omit it. This should be fixed if it's a mistake; if not, someone please tell me what the intended meaning of the parenthetical is.   ( ) 00:21, 21 October 2022 (UTC) 
 Added a link to   following some discussion over at meta-wiki. —     03:08, 12 November 2023 (UTC) 
 Please change   (in both places it appears) to   per   (page 11). Thanks!   (  · he/him) 19:58, 6 April 2024 (UTC) 


URL: https://ug.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://udm.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%8F:%D0%9A%D1%8B%D0%BB_%D0%BA%D1%83%D1%82%D1%8D%D0%BC%D0%BB%D1%8D%D1%81%D1%8C_%D0%BA%D1%83%D1%88%D1%82%D3%A5%D1%81%D1%8C%D0%BA%D0%BE%D0%BD

Content: Кыл кутэмлэсь куштӥськон пумысен нимысьтыз статья удмурт википедиын дасямын ӧвӧл на бере, учке вал  
 Пдсм


URL: https://ur.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%DB%8C%DA%A9%DB%8C%D9%BE%DB%8C%DA%88%DB%8C%D8%A7:%D8%B9%D9%85%D9%88%D9%85%DB%8C_%D8%A7%D8%B8%DB%81%D8%A7%D8%B1_%D9%84%D8%A7%D8%AA%D8%B9%D9%84%D9%82%DB%8C

Content: 
 ویکیپیڈیا کو تجارتی غرض سے استعمال میں نہ لائیں،  نہ اس تعلق سے کوئی رائے یا مشورہ تحریر کریں اور نہ ہی کوئی اشتہار دیں،  اگر کسی مضمون یا صفحہ سے یا مکمل ویکیپیڈیا کے کسی بھی اقتباس سے از خود کسی تجارتی اشیاء کی تعریف یا خوبیاں بیان ہوتی نظر آتی ہو تو انھیں مثال بنا کر پیش نہ کریں اور نہ ہی تنقید کا نشانہ بنائیں،  بلکہ اس کی اصلاح کی کوشش کریں۔
 ویکیپیڈیا پر ایسا مواد موجود ہوسکتاہے جو کسی زندہ یا حال ہی میں فوت شدہ شخصیت کے بارے میں ہو۔ زندہ یا حال ہی میں فوت شدہ شخصیات کی تصاویر کا استعمال ان کے حقوق نشر و اشاعت سے قطع نظر بعض ممالک میں قانون حقوق شخصیت کے تحت محدود و پابند ہو سکتا ہے۔
 اگر آپ کو مخصوص مشورے کی ضرورت ہے (جیسے طبی، قانونی، مالی یا پر خطر انتظامی) تو متعلقہ شعبے کے کسی سند یافتہ ماہر سے رابطہ کریں۔


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:General_disclaimer&action=history

Content: For any version listed below, click on its date to view it. For more help, see   and  .   from current version,   from preceding version,  ,  ,  


URL: https://tr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikipedi:Genel_sorumluluk_reddi

Content: 
  -  
  -  
  - 
 
  insan bilgisi dâhilinde ortak bir kaynak hazırlamak isteyen kişilerin veya grupların oluşturduğu ve herkesin ortak paydasında birleşen çevrim içi bir ansiklopedidir. Projenin temel hedefi, internet bağlantısı ve bir internet tarayıcısı olan herkesi bu içeriğe dâhil etmektir. Lütfen burada yer alan hiçbir bilginin alanında uzman profesyoneller tarafından değerlendirilmediğini, içeriğin size tam, kesin ve güvenilir bir bilgi sunmadığını unutmayınız. Bilgiler imece usulü herkesin katkıları ile oluşturulur.  
 Bu yargı, zaman geçtikçe sizin de göreceğiniz üzere  de yararlı veya kaliteli içerikler bulamayacağınız anlamına gelmemelidir. Yine de    Girilen herhangi bir maddenin içeriği, yakın bir zaman önce, ilgili maddenin konusuna karşıt görüşe sahip şahıslarca değiştirilmiş, zarar verilmiş olabilir. 
 Makalelerin güvenilir sürümlerini seçme ve bunları vurgulamanın yollarını araştırıyoruz. Yazarlar topluluğumuz,   ve   gibi araçlar kullanarak, değiştirilen ve yeni içeriği gözetlemektedir. Ancak  , gönüllüler tarafından düzenli bir şekilde incelenmediği için, okuyucular, buldukları hataları düzeltebilir veya tamamen rastgele olarak   sayfasıyla iletişim kurabilirlerse de, bu onların yasal yükümlülüğü değildir ve bu nedenle de, burada bulunan bilgilerin hiçbirinin, hiçbir amaca veya kullanıma yönelik olarak uygunluğunun garantisi yoktur. Hatta, hataları çeşitli kişilerce gayrıresmî olarak araştırılmış veya   işleminden geçmiş makaleler bile, siz okumadan kısa zaman önce uygunsuz bir şekilde değiştirilmiş olabilir.
 Burada bilginin serbestçe sağlandığını ve sizinle ve site sahip veya kullanıcıları, içeriğin yayınlandığı sunucu sahipleri,  ye katkıda bulunan bireyler, proje yöneticileri, sistem operatörleri ya da bu ve bu proje konularına bağlı kardeş projelere   diğer kişileri hüküm altına alacak bir anlaşma veya kontrat yaratmadığını anladığınızdan, lütfen emin olun. Sınırlandırılmış izinle bu siteden herhangi bir şeyi kopyalama hakkınız tanınmıştır; bu,  nin bir bölümü veya herhangi bir temsilcisi, üyesi, organizatörü ve diğer kullanıcıları üzerinde herhangi bir sözleşme veya sözleşme dışı bir sorumluluk yaratmaz ya da ifade etmez. 
  ötesinde bu bilgiyi kullanmanız veya düzenlemeniz ile ilişkili olarak,  ,   ve onunla ilişkili kardeş projelerin herhangi birisine gönderdiğiniz herhangi bir bilginin herhangi biri tarafından değiştirilmesi, tadil edilmesi, düzenlenmesi veya silinmesi durumunda  deki hiç kimse sorumlu tutulamaz.
  içeriğinde bulunan, bahsedilen herhangi bir tescilli marka, servis tescili, tasarım hakları, kişisel haklar veya buna benzer haklar şahsi sahiplerinin malıdır. Onların burada bulunması, burada orijinal yazarları tarafından yazılan   altındaki   içeriğindeki amaçtan veya bilgilendirme dışında başka bir amaçla kullanılabileceği anlamına gelmez.   ve   siteleri bu kullanımlardan   ve bu hakların sahibiyle bir anlaşması yoktur.   size bu hakları yukarıda belirtilen amaçlar dışında kullanma hakkı da tanıyamaz. Bu hakları veya benzer hakları  .


URL: https://tk.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedi%C3%BDa:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:General_disclaimer&action=edit

Content: You do not have permission to edit this page, for the following reason:
 
 Return to  .

URL: https://tk.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedi%C3%BDa:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://uk.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D1%96%D0%BA%D1%96%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D1%96%D1%8F:%D0%92%D1%96%D0%B4%D0%BC%D0%BE%D0%B2%D0%B0_%D0%B2%D1%96%D0%B4_%D0%B2%D1%96%D0%B4%D0%BF%D0%BE%D0%B2%D1%96%D0%B4%D0%B0%D0%BB%D1%8C%D0%BD%D0%BE%D1%81%D1%82%D1%96

Content: Вікіпедія — це онлайн-енциклопедія з відкритим вмістом, яку створює спільнота; інакше кажучи, це — об'єднання на волонтерських засадах окремих осіб та груп, що працюють над створенням загального ресурсу знань людства. Структура проєкту дозволяє змінювати його вміст будь-кому, хто має доступ до інтернету. Будь ласка, майте на увазі, що ніщо з того, що можна знайти тут, не отримало формальної експертної рецензії, необхідної для надання Вам повної, точної чи достовірної інформації.
 Однак це не означає, що Ви не знайдете цінної й точної інформації у Вікіпедії; у більшості випадків інформація, розміщена у Вікіпедії, є цілком достовірною. Та втім,   Вміст будь-якої статті Вікіпедії на момент прочитання вже міг хтось змінити, такий вміст міг піддатися вандалізму, чи його міг переписати хтось, чия точка зору не відповідає поглядам, прийнятим у відповідній науковій чи іншій галузі. Зверніть увагу на те, що більшість інших енциклопедій та інших подібних джерел інформації (у тому числі й  ) теж мають відмову від відповідальності.
 Наша активна спільнота редакторів користується такими інструментами, як   та  , щоб відстежувати появу нового контенту і будь-які зміни вже наявного. Однак у Вікіпедії немає механізму рівномірної перевірки інформації; і тоді як читачі можуть виправляти помилки в статтях і навіть час від часу робити неформальні  , у них немає жодних юридичних обов'язків у цьому плані, а тому достовірність чи прийнятність для будь-якого використання інформації, опублікованої на цьому сайті, не має жодних гарантій. І навіть ті статті, які було піддано неформальному експертному рецензуванню, чи які отримали статус  , згодом хтось може відредагувати неналежним чином — навіть за секунду до того, як Ви їх переглядатимете.
 
 Будь ласка, впевніться, що Ви усвідомлюєте, що інформація, яку надає Вікіпедія, надається вільно, і що між Вами та власниками чи користувачами цього сайту, власниками серверів, на яких його розміщено, окремими дописувачами Вікіпедії, будь-якими адміністраторами проєкту чи будь-якими іншими особами,   із цим проєктом чи його сестринськими проєктами, не створюється жодної угоди чи контракту, які б давали Вам змогу висувати проти них будь-які юридичні звинувачення. Ви отримуєте обмежену ліцензію на копіювання будь-якої інформації з цього сайту; вона не створює та не передбачає можливості накладення будь-яких контрактних чи надконтрактних юридичних зобов'язань ані на Вікіпедію, ані на будь-яких її агентів, учасників, організаторів чи інших користувачів.
 Немає жодної   стосовно Вашого способу використання чи будь-яких змін інформації, розміщеної в ній, окрім умов, зазначених у ліцензіях   (CC BY-SA) та   (GFDL); також ніхто у Вікіпедії не несе жодної юридичної відповідальності за будь-яку зміну, редагування, модифікацію чи вилучення будь-якої інформації, розміщеної Вами у Вікіпедії чи в одному з пов'язаних з нею проєктів.
 Будь-які торгові знаки, знаки обслуговування, колективні знаки, права на дизайн чи подібні права, які згадуються, використовуються чи цитуються в статтях Вікіпедії, є власністю їхніх відповідних правовласників. Їхнє використання тут не означає, що Ви можете використовувати їх із будь-якою метою, яка б відрізнялася від такого ж або подібного інформаційного використання, яке мали на меті оригінальні автори відповідних статей Вікіпедії за умови дотримання схеми ліцензування через CC BY-SA та GFDL. Якщо не зазначено протилежне, сайти Вікіпедії та Вікімедіа ані не підтримуються, ані не є афілійованими з будь-якими правовласниками, а тому Вікіпедія не може надавати будь-яких прав на використання будь-яких матеріалів, захищених авторських правом. Якщо Ви використовуєте будь-які такі чи подібні об'єкти нематеріальної власності, Ви робите це виключно на свій власний ризик.
 Вікіпедія містить матеріали, які можуть зображати впізнаваних осіб — живих, чи недавно померлих. Використання зображень живих чи недавно померлих осіб у деяких юрисдикціях обмежується законами, які стосуються прав особистості і є незалежними від статусу авторських прав на зображення. Перед тим, як використовувати контент такого типу, будь ласка, переконайтесь, що Ви маєте право на його використання згідно із законами, застосовними в таких випадках використання, який Ви маєте на меті.  
 Публікація інформації, яку Ви знайшли у Вікіпедії, може порушувати закони тієї країни чи юрисдикції, з якої Ви переглядаєте цю інформацію. База даних Вікіпедії розміщена на серверах у Сполучених Штатах Америки та обслуговується з урахуванням обмежень, передбачених локальними та федеральними законами. Закони Вашої країни чи юрисдикції можуть не захищати чи не дозволяти таких способів висловлення чи поширення інформації. Вікіпедія не заохочує до порушення будь-яких законів і не може нести відповідальності за будь-які порушення таких законів, якщо Ви посилатиметесь на цей домен чи будете використовувати, відтворювати або перевидавати інформацію, яка міститься на цьому сайті.
 Якщо Вам потрібна специфічна порада (наприклад, медична, юридична, фінансова консультація або порада щодо управління ризиком), будь ласка, зверніться до професіонала, який мав би ліцензію чи достатні знання для надання відповідних послуг у потрібній галузі.
 


URL: https://udm.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%8F:%D0%9A%D1%8B%D0%BB_%D0%BA%D1%83%D1%82%D1%8D%D0%BC%D0%BB%D1%8D%D1%81%D1%8C_%D0%BA%D1%83%D1%88%D1%82%D3%A5%D1%81%D1%8C%D0%BA%D0%BE%D0%BD

Content: Кыл кутэмлэсь куштӥськон пумысен нимысьтыз статья удмурт википедиын дасямын ӧвӧл на бере, учке вал  
 Пдсм


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Artificial+intelligence&returntoquery=centralAuthAutologinTried%3D1%26centralAuthError%3DNot%2Bcentrally%2Blogged%2Bin

Content: edits articles recent contributors

URL: https://tt.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%8F:%D2%96%D0%B0%D0%B2%D0%B0%D0%BF%D0%BB%D1%8B%D0%BB%D1%8B%D0%BA%D1%82%D0%B0%D0%BD_%D0%B1%D0%B0%D1%88_%D1%82%D0%B0%D1%80%D1%82%D1%83

Content:  - Википедиядә пәйдә булган мәгълүматка ышану хәвеф-хәтәрле булуы ихтималлыгы! - Википедия медицина өлкәсендә киңәшләр бирми - Википедия эчтәлеге хокукый мәсьәләләрдә дәлил буларак кулланыла алмый - Википедия эчтәлегенең кайберәүләрдә ризасызлык тудыра алуы ихтималлыгы
 В  Ү  Э  Д  Б  Т  Г  Б 
  — кешелекнең бар   туплауга багышланган ачык эчтәлекле онлайн энциклопедик ресурс;   уртак кертеме нәтиҗәсе. Проект структурасы буенча, Интернетка чыгу һәм гизгеч ярдәмендә пәрәвездәге веб-сәхифәләрне карау мөмкинлеге булган һәрбер шәхескә монда пәйда булган эчтәлекне үзгәртү мөмкинлеге бирелә. Моның аркасында, Википедиядә урын алган мәгълүмат аерым белем өлкәсе профессиональ экспертлары тарафыннан тикшерелмәгән, мәкаләләрдә урнаштырылган материалларны тема буенча тулы, дөрес һәм ышанычлы чыганак түгел дип санау дөрес. 
 дә кыйммәтле һәм дөрес мәгълүматны табып булмый дип әйтү дөрес түгел; гадәттә була. Тик   Сезне кызыксындырган материал бу өлкәдә профессиональ белемгә ия булмаган берәү тарафыннан соңгы арада алыштырылган, аңа карата вандаллык кылынган яки киресенчә үзгәртелгән булуы мөмкин. Мәкаләләребезнең ышанычлырак версияләрне тану һәм билгеләү өстендә эшлибез, тик гарантия бирә алмыйбыз. Моңа иң якыны —   процессы, тик боларга да нәкъ сезнең укуыгыз алдыннан берәүнең рәхимсез үзгәртүләр кертүе мөмкинлеген истә тоту дөрес.
 Моны укуга вакыт тапканыгызга рәхмәт.  ! 
 Мәсләкләребезнең  белдерелүе  ----  Mäsläklärebezneñ  belderelüe
   Тарихи мәсләкләр ----   Tarixi mäsläklär
   Стандартларыбызның кыска аңлатмасы  ----    
Standartlarıbıznıñ qısqa añlatması
 'ның барлык проектлар өчен  ----  'nıñ barlıq proyektlar öçen
   Википедия'ның мәсләкләре турында  башка аңлатмалар  ----    Wikipediä'nıñ mäsläkläre turında başqa añlatmalar


URL: https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:%E5%85%8D%E8%B4%A3%E5%A3%B0%E6%98%8E

Content: 是内容开放的在线的百科全书，它是由个人和团体志愿合作开发的人类知识的共有资源。这个计划的体系允许任何人通过网络连接修改其内容。因此，请注意您在这里找到的内容，并不一定由任何相关领域的专家和专业人员审查过，因此维基百科也无法保证给你提供完善、正确、可靠的信息。
 这并不是说您在维基百科上找不到有价值的和正确的信息，但是请注意 。任何特定条目的内容都可能在最近已经被修改、破坏或被对相关领域认知状况不一致的人变更。请注意，大多数其他百科全书和参考作品也有 。
 我们社群中活跃的编者会使用 和 工具来监视新的和更改的内容。然而，维基百科并无普遍受到同行评审；虽然读者可以修改错误或者参与到非正式的 中，但他们没有法律义务这样做，因此您在这里获取的所有信息都不对针对特定目的或一般使用的适用性提供任何暗示的保证。即使已经由同行评审通过的或经过 评选过程的文章，依然可能在您浏览前刚刚被修改过。
 
 请确认您了解到，您从这里所获得的信息都是自由、免费的，而且您没有与任何人有契约或合同关系，无论是本站的使用者、所有者、服务器提供商、任何维基百科参与者个人、管理员，还是其他任何与本计划及相关计划有直接或间接关系的个人或团体。在一个有限许可之下，您可以从本站复制任何内容，但这并不意味着维基百科或它的代理人、成员、组织者或其他用户对其承担任何契约性的或契约以外的责任。
 在 协议（CC-BY-SA）及 （GFDL）之外， 没有协议与使用和修改这些信息有关联；维基百科上也没有任何人应对修改、编辑或移除你张贴在维基百科或其相关计划的任何信息负责。
 维基百科条目中使用或提及的任何商标（包括服务商标、集体商标），或是设计权以及提及的其他权利，都属于其对应所有者的财产。维基百科条目的原作者在此根据CC-BY-SA和GFDL许可方案使用这些商标，但这并不意味着您也可以为相同或类似目的使用。除非另有说明，否则维基百科或维基媒体基金会不会与任何此类权利的所有人存在关联，所以也无法授权您使用任何受到保护的内容。您在使用任何此类或类似无形财产时需要自担风险。
 维基百科包含可确认身份的在世或最近过世的人的传记。在某些司法管辖区，有关 的法律限制生者或最近去世的人的图像的使用，并独立于这些图像的著作权状态。在使用这些类型的内容之前，请确保与你的使用意图相关的法律授予你使用该内容的权利。 
 请注意将您在这里所找到的信息发布出去有可能会违反您所在国家或司法管辖区的法律。维基百科的数据库都是储存在位于美国的服务器中，因而任何内容都受到当地法律和美国联邦法律的保护。您所在国家或司法管辖区的法律有可能没有对相同种类的言论和发行进行保护。维基百科并不鼓励任何人触犯法律，因此如果您链接到此域名或使用、复制或转载本站包含的信息，维基百科无法为可能带来的违反此类法律的行为负责。
 如果您需要具体的建议（例如在医学、法律和风险管理方面），请咨询一名注册或在该领域有能力的专业人士。


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&centralAuthAutologinTried=1&centralAuthError=Not+centrally+logged+in&returnto=Artificial+intelligence

Content: This page is not available in other languages.

URL: https://zh-yue.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:%E4%B8%80%E8%88%AC%E5%85%8D%E8%B2%AC%E8%81%B2%E6%98%8E

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 維基百科係網上內容公開嘅一部合作百科全書，係發展人類同享知識嘅志願組織。 呢項計劃嘅結構畀任何上到互聯網嘅人修改佢嘅內容。 請你明白：呢度無嘢真係一定被有專業知識嘅人審過；呢度啲料未必完備、準或者可靠。
 呢個並唔係講你喺維基百科上搵唔到有意義或者準確嘅資訊，但係要留意 。喺任何計劃頁嘅內容可能最近已經俾人改咗、破壞咗、或者俾某啲領域嘅認知唔同嘅人改咗源碼。請留意，好多其他百科全書同埋參考都有免責聲明。
 我哋嘅社群中嘅比較活躍嘅人會用 同埋 嘅工具嚟𥄫住新嘢同埋改過嘅嘢。然而，維基百科唔會受到正式嘅 （peer review）；雖然睇嘅人可以改瑕疵或者參考到唔正式嘅 入面，但係佢哋冇法律義務咁做，所以你喺呢度攞到嘅嘢都唔針對特定嘅目的或者一般人用嘅適用性提供任何暗示嘅保證。就算內容已經被同步審核通過或者經過 評選過嘅文章，佢依然可能係你瀏覽到之前啱啱俾人修改過。
 
 請明白，你喺呢度拎到嘅資訊都係自由、免費嘅，而且你唔會同呢個網站嘅擁有人或使用者、伺服器嘅供應商、任何維基百科嘅參與者（即係個人）、管理員、事務員，或者其他同呢個計劃或姊妹計劃有任何關聯嘅人建立任何申索嘅協議或合同。喺一個有限嘅授權之下，你可以由呢個網站複製任何內容，但係呢個並唔意味住維基百科同埋佢嘅代理人、成員、組織人或者其他使用者要去承擔任何契約性或者契約以外嘅責任。
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 如果你需要某啲方面（例如醫學、法律、財政、風險管理等）嘅專業建議，請搵返嗰方面有專業牌照或者相關專業知識嘅人。


URL: https://te.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B0%B5%E0%B0%BF%E0%B0%95%E0%B1%80%E0%B0%AA%E0%B1%80%E0%B0%A1%E0%B0%BF%E0%B0%AF%E0%B0%BE:%E0%B0%AE%E0%B0%AE%E0%B1%8D%E0%B0%AE%E0%B0%B2%E0%B1%8D%E0%B0%A8%E0%B0%BF_%E0%B0%95%E0%B0%B2%E0%B0%B5%E0%B0%82%E0%B0%A1%E0%B0%BF

Content:  లో వివిధ విషయాలకు సంబంధించి మమ్మల్ని కలవడం కొరకు అవసరమైన సమాచారం ఈ పేజీ లో లభిస్తుంది. 
 కొత్త వ్యాసం ఎవరైనా రాయవచ్చు. ముందుగా, దిద్దుబాటు యొక్క   తెలుసుకోవాలి.   కూడా తెలుసుకోవాలి. ఇవన్నీ తెలుసుకున్న తరువాత,   తో కొత్త పేజీని మొదలు పెట్టవచ్చు. ఇంకా సహాయం కావాలంటే,   ఉండనే ఉంది. 
 వికీపీడియా కు ఒక కొత్త వ్యాస విషయాన్ని సూచించ దలస్తే,   పేజీ లో చెయ్యవచ్చు. ఆ పేజీ లో విషయ సూచిక ఉంది, మీ సూచనను అక్కడ చేర్చవచ్చు.
 వికీపీడియా వ్యాసాలను ఎవరైనా సరిదిద్దవచ్చు. పేజీ లో తప్పు గమనిస్తే ఆ పేజీ కి పైన ఉన్న   లింకును నొక్కండి. అప్పుడు వచ్చే దిద్దుబాటు పేజీ లోని టెక్స్ట్‌ బాక్స్‌ లో తప్పును సరిదిద్దండి. దిద్దుబాట్లు చేసేటపుడు,  ను కూడా జత చేయండి. దిద్దుబాటు పై సహాయం కావాలంటే,   చదవండి. 
 వ్యాసాన్ని మెరుగు పరచడం పై చర్చించడానికి   వెళ్ళ్ళండి. వ్యాసం పేజీ కి వెళ్ళి, అక్కడ "చర్చ" ను నొక్కితే చర్చా పేజీ కి వెళ్ళవచ్చు. సభ్యులతో విడిగా మాట్లాడాలంటే, వారి   కి వెళ్ళాలి. సభ్యుని పేరును నొక్కితే, సదరు సభ్యుని పేజీ కి వెళ్తారు, అక్కడ "చర్చ" నొక్కితే, ఆ సభ్యుని చర్చా పేజీ కి వెళ్తారు. అక్కడ మీరు చేసే మార్పు చేర్పులు, ఆ సభ్యుడు లాగిన్‌ కాగానే కనిపిస్తాయి.
 వికీపీడియా లో ఎవరైనా రాయవచ్చు కాబట్టి, ఇక్కడ దుశ్చర్యలు జరగటం సహజమే. వికీపీడియా లో దుశ్చర్య అంటే, వ్యాసాన్ని చెడగొట్టే ఉద్దేశ్యంతో పనికిరాని చెత్తను పేజీల్లో పెట్టడం. మీరు ఏ పేజీ లో నైనా దుశ్చర్య ను గమనిస్తే   పాటించి, వ్యాసాన్ని పూర్వపు కూర్పుకు తీసుకొని పోవచ్చు. తరువాత కూడా ఆ సభ్యుడు అటువంటి దుశ్చర్యలు చేస్తూ ఉంటే, ఇతర సభ్యులను ఈ విషయమ్పై అప్రమత్తం చెయ్యండి. దీని కొరకు మీరు ఈ పేజీ లను చూడండి:    
 అప్పుడు, అవసరమైతే,   ఆ దుష్టుని  , సభ్యత్వాన్ని నిషేధించుతారు. 
 ఒక పేజీ ని పూర్తిగా తొలగించవలసి ఉందని మీరు భావిస్తే, పైగా అది వికీపీడియా   అనుగుణంగా ఉందని అనుకుంటే,   పేజీ లో ప్రతిపాదించండి. ఆ పేజీలో, అడుగున, తొలగింపు కొరకు ఎలా ప్రతిపాదించాలో వివరణ ఉంది. ఏదైనా పేజీని అన్యాయంగా తొలగించారని మీరు భావిస్తే,   లో మీ వాదనను వినిపించండి. 
 వికీపీడియా సభ్యుని గురించి తెలుసుకోవడానికి, ఆ సభ్యుని పేరును నొక్కండి; వారి   కి వెళ్తారు. ఏ సభ్యుని తోనైనా చర్చించాలంటే, ఆ సబ్యుని పేజీలో   ను నొక్కండి. కొంతమంది సభ్యులు వికీపీడియా ద్వారా ఈ-మెయిల్స్‌ ను అనుమతిస్తారు. అటువంటి సభ్యుని పేజీ లో, తెరకు ఎడమ అడుగు భాగంలో "E-mail this user" అనే లింకు కనిపిస్తుంది. కొంత మంది సభ్యులు ఇంకొంత సమాచారం కూడా (ఈ-మెయిల్‌, తక్షణ సందేశం, ఫోను మొదలైనవి) తమ పేజీలో ఇస్తారు. 
 చాలా మంది సభ్యులను ఒకేసారి సంప్రదించాలనుకుంటే, మీరు   లలో సభ్యత్వం తీసుకుని అక్కడ సందేశం ఇవ్వవచ్చు, లేదా   వద్ద చర్చించవచ్చు. సందేశాల సంగ్రహం నుండి పాత సందేశాలను చూడవచ్చు కూడా. 
 
 వికీపీడియా గురించిన సమాచారం కొరకు   ఒక మంచి వనరు. ప్రతీ పేజీ కి (వ్యాసం పేజీలు, విధాన పేజీలు, సభ్యుని పేజీలు) కూడా దాని చర్చా పేజీ ఉంది. ఒక విషయానికి లేదా సభ్యునికి సంబంధించిన సమాచారం కొరకు, ఈ చర్చా పేజీయే సరియైన స్థానం. 
 ఇది కాకుండా, సాధారణ ప్రశ్నలకు 4 ప్రదేశాలు ఉన్నాయి: 
 పై స్థలాల్లో మీ ప్రశ్నను అడిగిన తరువత కొన్ని రోజుల పాటు, క్రమం తప్పకుండా ఆ పేజీని సమాధానాల కొరకు చూస్తూండండి. 
 వికీమీడియా ఫౌండేషన్‌ కూ సంనంధించిన వివరాలకై (వాటి కొరకు మాత్రమే)   కు ఈ-మెయిల్‌ చెయ్యండి. 
 విలేకరులు మరియు ఇతర ఆసక్తి పరులు   ఈ-మెయిల్‌ పంపవచ్చు. మీరు ఈ జాబితాలో సభ్యులు కాకపోతే మీ ఈ-మెయిల్‌ ను నిర్వాహకుడు అనుమతించవలసి ఉంటుంది. మీరు చాలా ఈ-మెయిల్‌ లు పంపాలనుకుంటే సభ్యత్వ వివరాల కొరకు   ను చూడండి. 
 వికీపీడియన్లను సంప్రదించదలిస్తే,   మరియు   లను చూడండి. 
 మీకు పత్రికా సమాచార సేకరణ అవసరమైతే, పైగా మీరు విలేకరి  , మీరు టెర్రీ ఫూట్‌ ను +1 727 231 0101 లో సంప్రదిస్తే ఆయన మిమ్మల్ని   కు కలుపుతారు. లేదా మీరు జిమ్మీ కి సరాసరి వికీ.చొమ వద్ద ఈ-మెయిల్‌ పంపవచ్చు. ఆ ఫోనును   పత్రికా విచారణలకే వాడండి. వేరే వటికి దానిని వాడ రాదు. 
 వికీమీడియా ఫౌండేషన్‌ పత్రికా అధికారి వివరాలకై   చూడండి. 
 వికీపీడియా విధానాల పై చర్చ   వద్ద చెయ్యవచ్చు. 
 కొన్నిసార్లు దుశ్చర్యల కారణంగా   ను నిషేధించ వలసి రావచ్చు (పైన చూడండి). అయితే, ఒక్కోసారి, వేరే వాళ్ళు కూడా అదే అడ్రసును వాడుతూ ఉండవచ్చు.
 ఒకవేళ అదే మీరయితే, మీరు దిద్దుబాట్లు జరపబోయినపుడు ఎదురైన సందేశం లోని సూచనలను పాటించండి. లేదా   లోని నిర్వాహకులను సంప్రదించవచ్చు.(ఈ-మెయిల్‌ లింకు ఉన్న నిర్వాహకులకు ఈ-మెయిల్‌ పంపవచ్చు). లేదా మీ సభ్యుని చర్చా పేజీలో సందేశం పెట్టండి (సాధారణంగా మీ సభ్యుని చర్చా పేజీ పనిచేస్తూనే ఉంటుంది). 
 మీకు కాపీ హక్కు ఉన్న వ్యాసం మీ అనుమతి లేకుండా వికీపీడియా లో వాడితే   చెయ్యవచ్చు. మరింత సమాచారానికై  చూడండి. 
 కాపీ హక్కుల అతిక్రమణ అని మీరు     ఉన్న సూచనలను పాటించండి. 
 వికీపీడియా లోని వ్యాసాలను వాడుకోవడానికి అనుమతి కావాలా? ( ) ఇప్పటికే మీకా అనుమతి - వ్యాపార ప్రయోజనాల కోసం కూడా - ఇచ్చేసింది. అయితే, మీరు లైసెన్సు నిబంధనలను పాటించాలి. వివరాలకు   చూడండి.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Wikipedia_disclaimers

Content: This category and the navigation bar below contain the official Wikipedia  . All of these pages are protected, as their content needs to be carefully worded and free of disruption for legal reasons, and they should generally not be changed without extensive discussion.
 The following 6 pages are in this category, out of  6 total.  .


URL: https://tg.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D0%B0:%D0%A2%D0%B0%D0%BA%D0%B7%D0%B8%D0%B1%D0%BD%D0%BE%D0%BC%D0%B0%D0%B8_%D1%83%D0%BC%D1%83%D0%BC%D3%A3

Content: ,  -энциклопедия с открытым содержимым, является добровольным сообществом личностей и групп, создающих общее хранилище человеческих знаний. Её строение позволяет любому, кто имеет доступ к Интернету и  , изменять её содержание. Поэтому, пожалуйста, примите во внимание, что приведённые здесь сведения могут быть не проверенными профессионалами, обладающими знаниями в соответствующих областях, необходимыми для предоставления вам полной, точной или заслуживающей доверия информации о любом понятии в Википедии.
 Нельзя сказать, что в Википедии не так уж много полезной и точной информации, однако вы должны сознавать, что   Во время прочтения они могли быть только что изменены, испорчены, либо написаны тем, чьё мнение отличается от общепринятого в области знаний, интересующей вас.
 Мы ищем пути проверки и отбора вызывающих наибольшее доверие версий статей, но мы не можем ничего гарантировать. Наше наибольшее достижение — это  , но даже они могли быть испорчены или искажены кем-то за несколько мгновений до прочтения вами.
 Пожалуйста, примите во внимание, что вся информация, находящаяся здесь, предоставлена свободно, как акт доброй воли, без заключения каких-либо договорённостей или договоров между вами и владельцами или пользователями данного сайта, владельцами серверов, на которых он размещён, авторами Википедии, администраторами проекта, операторами либо кем-то ещё,   с этим или родственными ему проектами, которые [договоры] могут стать предметом прямых претензий. Вам предоставляется ограниченное право копировать содержимое этого сайта — данное право не предусматривает и не подразумевает никакой договорной или иной ответственности за любую часть Википедии или её агентов, участников, организаторов или других пользователей.
 Любые торговые марки, знаки и названия товаров, служб и организаций, права на  , авторские и смежные права, которые упоминаются, используются или цитируются в статьях, принадлежат их законным владельцам. Их использование здесь не даёт вам право на любое другое использование, кроме предусмотренного авторами статей Википедии в соответствии со схемой лицензирования  . Если не указано иное, Википедия и сайты Фонда Викимедиа никак не связаны с правообладателями, и поэтому Википедия не может распоряжаться правами на использование материалов, защищённых авторским правом.  
 Обратите внимание, что чтение, распространение или изменение информации, размещённой в Википедии, может являться нарушением законов той страны, в которой вы просматриваете этот сайт. Википедия не призывает к нарушению никаких законов, но так как информация сохраняется на серверах, расположенных в  , мы пользуемся правами, предоставленными всем   и принципами    . Законы вашей страны могут трактовать защиту свободы слова не так широко, как законы США или Хартия ООН — в этом случае Википедия не несёт ответственности за любые потенциальные нарушения этих законов вами при создании ссылок на этот сайт или другом использовании любой содержащейся здесь информации.
 , так как является добровольным сообществом, свободно организованным для создания открытых образовательных, культурных и информационных ресурсов.   и не существует   относительно использования или изменения информации, не предусмотренного лицензией  . Также никто в Википедии не несёт ответственности за изменение, редактирование или удаление любой информации, добавленной вами в Википедию или другие связанные с ней проекты.
 Спасибо, что потратили своё время на чтение этой страницы. Желаем вам получить только приятные впечатления от пользования Википедией.
 


URL: https://tg.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D0%B0:%D0%A2%D0%B0%D0%BA%D0%B7%D0%B8%D0%B1%D0%BD%D0%BE%D0%BC%D0%B0%D0%B8_%D1%83%D0%BC%D1%83%D0%BC%D3%A3

Content: ,  -энциклопедия с открытым содержимым, является добровольным сообществом личностей и групп, создающих общее хранилище человеческих знаний. Её строение позволяет любому, кто имеет доступ к Интернету и  , изменять её содержание. Поэтому, пожалуйста, примите во внимание, что приведённые здесь сведения могут быть не проверенными профессионалами, обладающими знаниями в соответствующих областях, необходимыми для предоставления вам полной, точной или заслуживающей доверия информации о любом понятии в Википедии.
 Нельзя сказать, что в Википедии не так уж много полезной и точной информации, однако вы должны сознавать, что   Во время прочтения они могли быть только что изменены, испорчены, либо написаны тем, чьё мнение отличается от общепринятого в области знаний, интересующей вас.
 Мы ищем пути проверки и отбора вызывающих наибольшее доверие версий статей, но мы не можем ничего гарантировать. Наше наибольшее достижение — это  , но даже они могли быть испорчены или искажены кем-то за несколько мгновений до прочтения вами.
 Пожалуйста, примите во внимание, что вся информация, находящаяся здесь, предоставлена свободно, как акт доброй воли, без заключения каких-либо договорённостей или договоров между вами и владельцами или пользователями данного сайта, владельцами серверов, на которых он размещён, авторами Википедии, администраторами проекта, операторами либо кем-то ещё,   с этим или родственными ему проектами, которые [договоры] могут стать предметом прямых претензий. Вам предоставляется ограниченное право копировать содержимое этого сайта — данное право не предусматривает и не подразумевает никакой договорной или иной ответственности за любую часть Википедии или её агентов, участников, организаторов или других пользователей.
 Любые торговые марки, знаки и названия товаров, служб и организаций, права на  , авторские и смежные права, которые упоминаются, используются или цитируются в статьях, принадлежат их законным владельцам. Их использование здесь не даёт вам право на любое другое использование, кроме предусмотренного авторами статей Википедии в соответствии со схемой лицензирования  . Если не указано иное, Википедия и сайты Фонда Викимедиа никак не связаны с правообладателями, и поэтому Википедия не может распоряжаться правами на использование материалов, защищённых авторским правом.  
 Обратите внимание, что чтение, распространение или изменение информации, размещённой в Википедии, может являться нарушением законов той страны, в которой вы просматриваете этот сайт. Википедия не призывает к нарушению никаких законов, но так как информация сохраняется на серверах, расположенных в  , мы пользуемся правами, предоставленными всем   и принципами    . Законы вашей страны могут трактовать защиту свободы слова не так широко, как законы США или Хартия ООН — в этом случае Википедия не несёт ответственности за любые потенциальные нарушения этих законов вами при создании ссылок на этот сайт или другом использовании любой содержащейся здесь информации.
 , так как является добровольным сообществом, свободно организованным для создания открытых образовательных, культурных и информационных ресурсов.   и не существует   относительно использования или изменения информации, не предусмотренного лицензией  . Также никто в Википедии не несёт ответственности за изменение, редактирование или удаление любой информации, добавленной вами в Википедию или другие связанные с ней проекты.
 Спасибо, что потратили своё время на чтение этой страницы. Желаем вам получить только приятные впечатления от пользования Википедией.
 


URL: https://tt.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%8F:%D2%96%D0%B0%D0%B2%D0%B0%D0%BF%D0%BB%D1%8B%D0%BB%D1%8B%D0%BA%D1%82%D0%B0%D0%BD_%D0%B1%D0%B0%D1%88_%D1%82%D0%B0%D1%80%D1%82%D1%83

Content:  - Википедиядә пәйдә булган мәгълүматка ышану хәвеф-хәтәрле булуы ихтималлыгы! - Википедия медицина өлкәсендә киңәшләр бирми - Википедия эчтәлеге хокукый мәсьәләләрдә дәлил буларак кулланыла алмый - Википедия эчтәлегенең кайберәүләрдә ризасызлык тудыра алуы ихтималлыгы
 В  Ү  Э  Д  Б  Т  Г  Б 
  — кешелекнең бар   туплауга багышланган ачык эчтәлекле онлайн энциклопедик ресурс;   уртак кертеме нәтиҗәсе. Проект структурасы буенча, Интернетка чыгу һәм гизгеч ярдәмендә пәрәвездәге веб-сәхифәләрне карау мөмкинлеге булган һәрбер шәхескә монда пәйда булган эчтәлекне үзгәртү мөмкинлеге бирелә. Моның аркасында, Википедиядә урын алган мәгълүмат аерым белем өлкәсе профессиональ экспертлары тарафыннан тикшерелмәгән, мәкаләләрдә урнаштырылган материалларны тема буенча тулы, дөрес һәм ышанычлы чыганак түгел дип санау дөрес. 
 дә кыйммәтле һәм дөрес мәгълүматны табып булмый дип әйтү дөрес түгел; гадәттә була. Тик   Сезне кызыксындырган материал бу өлкәдә профессиональ белемгә ия булмаган берәү тарафыннан соңгы арада алыштырылган, аңа карата вандаллык кылынган яки киресенчә үзгәртелгән булуы мөмкин. Мәкаләләребезнең ышанычлырак версияләрне тану һәм билгеләү өстендә эшлибез, тик гарантия бирә алмыйбыз. Моңа иң якыны —   процессы, тик боларга да нәкъ сезнең укуыгыз алдыннан берәүнең рәхимсез үзгәртүләр кертүе мөмкинлеген истә тоту дөрес.
 Моны укуга вакыт тапканыгызга рәхмәт.  ! 
 Мәсләкләребезнең  белдерелүе  ----  Mäsläklärebezneñ  belderelüe
   Тарихи мәсләкләр ----   Tarixi mäsläklär
   Стандартларыбызның кыска аңлатмасы  ----    
Standartlarıbıznıñ qısqa añlatması
 'ның барлык проектлар өчен  ----  'nıñ barlıq proyektlar öçen
   Википедия'ның мәсләкләре турында  башка аңлатмалар  ----    Wikipediä'nıñ mäsläkläre turında başqa añlatmalar


URL: https://roa-tara.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 
  è un'enciclopedia online a contenuto aperto, frutto del lavoro di un insieme di volontari, con lo scopo di sviluppare una fonte di conoscenza comune e libera.
Sebbene esistano   e un sistema non ufficiale di gestione anonimo e volontario, la struttura dell'enciclopedia permette a chiunque di modificare il contenuto delle sue pagine.
 È pertanto necessario tenere presente che:
 .
Ciò, naturalmente, non implica la mancanza di informazioni interessanti o accurate, ma è importante sapere che su Wikipedia ogni contenuto può essere modificato, alterato o   da chiunque.
Ciò significa che ogni dato o informazione presente nelle voci di Wikipedia potrebbe non rappresentare adeguatamente l'effettivo stato della conoscenza condivisa o la verità dei fatti.
Alcune edizioni linguistiche di Wikipedia hanno adottato  , ma sempre in forma volontaria e senza garanzia.
La cosa più vicina a questo sistema di selezione è l'attuale sezione « »; tuttavia anche le voci in essa presenti potrebbero essere state successivamente modificate senza il controllo necessario.
 
 Le informazioni riportate sono fornite in maniera libera e gratuita.
Nessun tipo di accordo o contratto sussiste — sia pure in forma implicita — tra l'utente e i proprietari del sito, gli utenti, i proprietari dei server, gli amministratori del progetto, gli amministratori di sistema o qualsiasi altra parte   a Wikipedia o ai progetti collaterali.
 Qualsiasi  , marchio di fabbrica, marchio collettivo, diritto di design, diritto d'immagine, di tutela dei propri dati personali o altri diritti simili, menzionati o utilizzati nelle voci di Wikipedia, è di proprietà dei legittimi detentori.
Tutto il materiale che si trova su Wikipedia è pubblicato dagli utenti (dei quali è conservato l'indirizzo IP a scopo cautelativo) secondo quanto previsto dalle   (CC BY-SA) e   (GFDL).
Wikipedia non può garantire che gli utenti abbiano effettivamente ottemperato a quanto richiesto da dette licenze e non abbiano, quindi, leso alcun diritto: la responsabilità della pubblicazione rimane perciò esclusivamente in capo agli utenti.
Laddove non diversamente dichiarato i siti di Wikipedia e Wikimedia non sono né associati a, né approvati da alcuno dei detentori di tali diritti.
  ed è espressamente vietato.
 È garantita una licenza limitata di copia dei contenuti (secondo le condizioni previste dalle licenze CC BY-SA e GFDL), ma ciò non crea né implica alcuna responsabilità contrattuale o extra-contrattuale da parte di Wikipedia o di uno qualsiasi dei suoi agenti, membri, organizzatori o altre parti.
 
 Le informazioni presenti potrebbero violare delle leggi del luogo di loro fruizione.
Wikipedia non incoraggia le violazioni di legge ma, siccome le informazioni sono conservate su server posti in  , negli  , si assumono a riferimento le disposizioni generali stabilite dal   della   e dalla   delle  .
Alcune legislazioni nazionali potrebbero non accordare una talmente ampia protezione della libertà di parola: Wikipedia non è responsabile per eventuali utilizzi dei propri contenuti considerati illeciti in tali Paesi.
 
 Leggere anche le avvertenze     e   per le liberatorie o per clausole specifiche di esclusione di responsabilità (disclaimer).
  in quanto essa è un'associazione volontaria di individui solo parzialmente strutturata e sviluppata liberamente per creare risorse educative, culturali e informative, online e aperte.
  e   circa il loro utilizzo o modifica, a parte il rispetto delle licenze CC BY-SA e GFDL; parimenti nessuno in Wikipedia è responsabile per il fatto che chicchessia cambi, modifichi o rimuova qualsiasi informazione che chiunque altro o egli medesimo possa aver inserito su Wikipedia o su uno qualsiasi dei suoi progetti associati.
 Il contenuto di questa pagina si applica a   presente in Wikipedia.
 Grazie per il tempo speso per la lettura di queste avvertenze generali, e auguri per una navigazione utile e piacevole su Wikipedia.


URL: https://th.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B8%A7%E0%B8%B4%E0%B8%81%E0%B8%B4%E0%B8%9E%E0%B8%B5%E0%B9%80%E0%B8%94%E0%B8%B5%E0%B8%A2:%E0%B8%82%E0%B9%89%E0%B8%AD%E0%B8%9B%E0%B8%8F%E0%B8%B4%E0%B9%80%E0%B8%AA%E0%B8%98%E0%B8%84%E0%B8%A7%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%A1%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%B1%E0%B8%9A%E0%B8%9C%E0%B8%B4%E0%B8%94%E0%B8%8A%E0%B8%AD%E0%B8%9A

Content: วิกิพีเดียเป็นสารานุกรมเนื้อหาเสรีที่เกิดจากการร่วมเขียนออนไลน์ นั่นคือ การรวมตัวโดยใจสมัครของปัจเจกบุคคลและกลุ่มทำงานเพื่อพัฒนาทรัพยากรความรู้ของมนุษย์ที่เป็นของส่วนรวม โครงสร้างของวิกิพีเดียเปิดให้ทุกคนที่เชื่อมต่ออินเทอร์เน็ตเปลี่ยนแปลงเนื้อหาได้ โปรดทราบว่าไม่จำเป็นที่เนื้อหาใด ๆ ในวิกิพีเดียนี้จะได้รับการสอบทานจากนักวิชาชีพที่มีความเชี่ยวชาญพอจะนำเสนอสารสนเทศที่ครบถ้วน แม่นยำ หรือเชื่อถือได้แก่คุณ
 ที่กล่าวมาข้างต้น มิใช่ว่าคุณไม่อาจพบสารสนเทศอันทรงคุณค่าและแม่นยำได้จากวิกิพีเดีย อย่างไรก็ดี   เพราะเนื้อหาในแต่ละบทความอาจเพิ่งถูกแก้ไข เปลี่ยนแปลง หรือทำลาย โดยบุคคลผู้มีความเห็นไม่สอดคล้องกับสถานะองค์ความรู้ปัจจุบันในสาขาที่เกี่ยวข้อง หมายเหตุว่า สารานุกรมอื่นและงานอ้างอิงส่วนใหญ่ยังมีข้อปฏิเสธความรับผิดชอบที่คล้ายกัน
 เรากำลังทำงานโดยอยู่ระหว่างการเลือกและเน้นบทความรุ่นที่น่าเชื่อถือ ผู้ใช้วิกิพีเดียได้ใช้เครื่องมือต่าง ๆ เช่น   และ   ในการสังเกตดูเนื้อหาใหม่และเนื้อหาที่มีการเปลี่ยนแปลง อย่างไรก็ตาม ข้อมูลบนวิกิพีเดียไม่ได้รับการตรวจทานเป็นระเบียบเดียวกัน แม้ผู้อ่านจะสามารถแก้ไขข้อผิดพลาดหรือมีส่วนร่วมในการตรวจทานเนื้อหาของบทความเป็นครั้งคราวได้ แต่ผู้อ่านไม่มีหน้าที่ตามกฎหมายที่ต้องปฏิบัติเช่นนั้น ฉะนั้น สารสนเทศทั้งหมดที่ปรากฏอยู่จึงไม่มีการรับรองความเหมาะสมโดยปริยายแก่ความมุ่งหมายหรือการใช้งานใด ๆ ทั้งสิ้น แม้กระทั่งบทความซึ่งผ่านการตรวจสอบอย่างไม่เป็นทางการหรือขบวนการ แล้วก็ยังอาจมีการแก้ไขอย่างไม่เหมาะสมภายหลังก่อนหน้าที่คุณมาอ่านก็เป็นได้
 
 พึงให้แน่ใจว่า คุณเข้าใจว่า สารสนเทศที่วิกิพีเดียให้บริการนี้ได้รับการจัดหามาอย่างเสรี และไม่มีการทำความตกลงหรือสัญญาใด ๆ ระหว่างคุณกับเจ้าของหรือผู้ใช้ของเว็บไซต์นี้ เจ้าของเซิร์ฟเวอร์ที่จัดเก็บวิกิพีเดีย ผู้ประพันธ์วิกิพีเดียปัจเจกบุคคล ผู้บริหารระบบ ผู้ดูแลระบบของโครงการ หรือใครก็ตามที่เกี่ยวข้องทางหนึ่งทางใดกับโครงการนี้หรือโครงการพี่น้องที่ขึ้นอยู่กับข้อเรียกร้องของคุณต่อพวกเขาโดยตรง คุณได้รับสัญญาอนุญาตที่จำกัดในการคัดลอกทุกอย่างในเว็บไซต์นี้ สัญญาอนุญาตนั้นมิได้สร้างหรือระบุความรับผิดตามสัญญาหรือนอกเหนือสัญญาในส่วนของวิกิพีเดีย หรือตัวแทน สมาชิก ผู้จัดทำหรือผู้ใช้อื่นของวิกิพีเดีย
 ต่อการใช้หรือการแก้ไขเพิ่มเติมสารสนเทศนี้ของคุณนอกเหนือไปจาก  และ    ไม่มีผู้ใดที่เกี่ยวข้องกับวิกิพีเดียต้องรับผิดชอบหากมีผู้ใดเปลี่ยนแปลง แก้ไข แก้ไขเพิ่มเติม หรือนำออกซึ่งสารสนเทศใด ๆ ที่คุณอาจโพสต์บนวิกิพีเดียหรือโครงการที่เกี่ยวข้อง
  เครื่องหมายบริการ เครื่องหมายร่วม และสิทธิในการออกแบบและสิทธิที่คล้ายกันใด ๆ ซึ่งมีการพาดพิง ใช้ หรืออ้างอิงในบทความของสารานุกรมวิกิพีเดียเป็นทรัพย์สินของเจ้าของเครื่องหมายและสิทธินั้น ๆ การใช้เครื่องหมายและสิทธิในวิกิพีเดียมิได้หมายความว่า คุณสามารถใช้เครื่องหมายและสิทธิเพื่อความมุ่งหมายอื่นนอกเหนือไปจากการใช้เชิงสารสนเทศดังเช่นผู้ประพันธ์ต้นฉบับของบทความวิกิพีเดียเหล่านี้ภายใต้แผนสัญญาอนุญาต CC-BY-SA และ GFDL เว้นแต่ระบุไว้เป็นอย่างอื่น เว็บไซต์วิกิพีเดียและวิกิมีเดียมิได้รับอนุญาตอย่างเป็นทางการจากหรือสังกัดกับผู้ถือครองสิทธิดังกล่าว ฉะนั้น วิกิพีเดียไม่อาจให้สิทธิใด ๆ ที่จะใช้ทรัพย์สินที่ได้รับการคุ้มครองได้ การใช้ทรัพย์สินที่ไม่มีรูปร่างดังกล่าวหรือที่คล้ายกันเป็นความเสี่ยงของคุณเอง
 วิกิพีเดียมีวัตถุซึ่งแสดงบุคคลที่พิสูจน์รูปพรรณได้ที่ยังมีชีวิตอยู่หรือเพิ่งเสียชีวิตไปเมื่อไม่นานมานี้ การใช้ภาพของปัจเจกบุคคลที่ยังมีชีวิตอยู่หรือเพิ่งเสียชีวิตนั้น ถูกจำกัดโดยกฎหมายเกี่ยวกับสิทธิส่วนบุคคลในบางเขตอำนาจศาล เป็นเอกเทศจากสถานะลิขสิทธิ์ ก่อนใช้เนื้อหาประเภทนี้ โปรดศึกษาให้แน่ใจว่า คุณมีสิทธิที่จะใช้วัตถุนั้นภายใต้กฎหมายซึ่งบังคับใช้ในพฤติการณ์การใช้ที่คุณเจตนา คุณรับผิดชอบแต่เพียงผู้เดียวหากคุณละเมิดสิทธิส่วนบุคคลของผู้อื่น
 การเผยแพร่สารสนเทศในวิกิพีเดียอาจละเมิดกฎหมายของประเทศหรือเขตอำนาจศาลที่คุณกำลังชมสารสนเทศนี้อยู่ ฐานข้อมูลวิกิพีเดียถูกเก็บรักษาบนเซิร์ฟเวอร์ในรัฐฟลอริดา สหรัฐอเมริกา และคงไว้ตามความคุ้มครองที่กฎหมายท้องถิ่นและของสหรัฐให้ วิกิพีเดียไม่สนับสนุนการละเมิดกฎหมายใด ๆ และไม่สามารถรับผิดชอบต่อการละเมิดกฎหมายเช่นนั้นได้ในกรณีใด ๆ หากคุณลิงก์มายังโดเมนนี้ หรือใช้ ทำซ้ำหรือเผยแพร่ซ้ำซึ่งสารสนเทศซึ่งมีอยู่ในวิกิพีเดีย
 หากคุณกำลังมองหาคำแนะนำ (เช่น ทางการแพทย์ กฎหมาย การเงิน หรือการจัดการความเสี่ยง) โปรดมองหาผู้เชี่ยวชาญซึ่งมีความรู้หรือใบอนุญาตในท้องที่ของคุณ


URL: https://ta.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%AE%B5%E0%AE%BF%E0%AE%95%E0%AF%8D%E0%AE%95%E0%AE%BF%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%8D%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%80%E0%AE%9F%E0%AE%BF%E0%AE%AF%E0%AE%BE:%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%8A%E0%AE%A4%E0%AF%81%E0%AE%B5%E0%AE%BE%E0%AE%A9_%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%8A%E0%AE%B1%E0%AF%81%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%8D%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%81%E0%AE%A4%E0%AF%8D_%E0%AE%A4%E0%AF%81%E0%AE%B1%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%8D%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%81%E0%AE%95%E0%AE%B3%E0%AF%8D

Content: 
  –   –   –   –  
 
வி  செ  எ  உ  ஏ 
 
  ஒரு இணைய திறந்த-உள்ளடக்க ஒருங்கிணைந்த கலைக்களஞ்சியம் ஆகும். அதாவது, தனிநபர்கள் மற்றும் குழுக்களின் ஒரு தன்னார்வ அமைப்பு, மனித அறிவின் ஒரு பொதுவான வள ஆதாரங்களை வளர்ப்பவர்கள் ஆகும். இந்த திட்டத்தின் கட்டமைப்பானது, இணைய இணைப்பு மற்றும் உலகளாவிய வலை உலாவி உடைய அனைவரும் அதன் உள்ளடக்கத்தை மாற்ற அனுமதிக்கிறது. இங்கே காணப்படும் எந்தத் தகவலும் முழுமையான, ​​துல்லியமான அல்லது நம்பகமான தகவல்களாக நீங்கள் பெறுவதற்க்கு தேவையான நிபுணர்களின் மறு ஆய்வுக்கு உட்படுத்தப்படவில்லை.
 அதாவது நீங்கள்   மதிப்புமிக்க மற்றும் துல்லியமான தகவல்களை காண முடியாது என்று சொல்வதற்க்கில்லை; பல நேரங்களில் உங்களால் அது முடியும். எனினும்,   எந்தவொரு கட்டுரையின் உள்ளடக்கமும் யாராலோ சமீபத்தில் மாற்றப்பட்டு, அழிக்கப்பட்டு அல்லது மாற்றியமைக்கப்பட்டிருக்கலாம்.
 நாம் கட்டுரைகளின் நம்பகமான பதிப்புகளின் தேர்வு மற்றும் முன்னிலைப்படுத்தும் வழிகளில் ஈடுபடுகின்றோம். நமது இயக்கத்தில் சமூக பதிப்பாசிரியர்கள்   மற்றும்   போன்ற ஓடைகளை, புதிய மற்றும் மாறும் உள்ளடக்கத்தை கண்காணிக்க பயன்படுத்துகின்றனர். எனினும்,   முறையான மறுபார்வை இல்லை; வாசகர்கள் பிழைகளை சரிசெய்யும் போதோ அல்லது சாதாரண மறுபார்வையில் ஈடுபடும் போதோ, அவர்கள் அவ்வாறு செய்வதற்கு எந்த சட்ட கடமை கிடையாது. இதனால் இங்கே படிக்கும் அனைத்து தகவல்களும் எவ்வித மறைமுக உறுதியான காப்புறுதிகளும் இல்லாமல் உள்ளது. இருப்பினும் கட்டுரைகள் என்றும் முறைசாரா மறுபார்வை மூலம் அல்லது   மூலம் மதிப்பிடப்படுகிறது. நீங்கள் அவற்றை பார்வையிடும் முன்பு பொருத்தமற்ற செயல்பாடுகள் பின்னர் திருத்தப்பட இருக்கலாம்.
 ஒப்பந்தம் இல்லை; வரையறுக்கப்பட்ட உரிமம்
இங்கே வழங்கப்பட்ட தகவல்கள் இலவசமாக வழங்கப்படுகின்றன என்பதை நீங்கள் புரிந்து கொள்ளுதல் வேண்டும், மற்றும் உங்களுக்கும், இந்த தளத்தின் உரிமையாளர்களுக்கோ அல்லது பயனர்களுக்கோ எந்தவித ஒப்பந்தமும் இல்லை, தனிப்பட்ட விக்கிபீடியா பங்களிப்பாளர்கள், எந்த திட்ட நிர்வாகிகள் அல்லது யாராவது நேரடியாக அவர்களுக்கு எதிராக உங்கள் கூற்றுக்கள் இந்த திட்டம் அல்லது சகோதர திட்டங்கள் தொடர்புடைய எந்த வழியில் யார் இந்த தளத்திலிருந்து எதையும் நகலெடுக்க உங்களுக்கு ஒரு வரையறுக்கப்பட்ட உரிமம் வழங்கப்பட்டுள்ளது; அது விக்கிப்பீடியா அல்லது அதன் முகவர்கள், உறுப்பினர்கள், அமைப்பாளர்கள் அல்லது பிற பயனர்களின் எந்தவொரு ஒப்பந்தம் அல்லது மிரட்டல் கடமைகளை உருவாக்கவோ அல்லது குறிக்கவோ இல்லை. Creative Commons Attributio Sharealike 3.0 Unported License (CC-BY-SA) க்கு அப்பால் இந்த தகவலைப் பயன்படுத்துவது அல்லது மாற்றியமைப்பதைப் பற்றியும், இந்த பக்கத்தை திறக்க வும் திருத்தவூம் முடியும் விக்கிபீடியா அல்லது அதன் தொடர்புடைய திட்டங்களில் நீங்கள் பதிவு செய்யக்கூடிய எந்தவொரு தகவலையும் மாற்ற, திருத்த, மாற்ற அல்லது நீக்க உரிமை உண்டு.
 விக்கிபீடியா கலைக்களஞ்சியத்தின் கட்டுரைகளில் பயன்படுத்தப்படும் அல்லது மேற்கோளிடப்பட்ட வர்த்தக சின்னங்கள், சேவை குறிகள், கூட்டு மதிப்பெண்கள், வடிவமைப்பு உரிமைகள் அல்லது இதே போன்ற உரிமைகள் அல்லது அவற்றின் உரிமையாளர்களின் சொத்து. CC-BY-SA மற்றும் GFDL உரிமம் வழங்கும் திட்டங்களின் கீழ் விக்கிபீடியா கட்டுரைகளின் அசல் எழுத்தாளர்களால் சிந்திக்கப்பட்ட அதே தகவலுக்கும் இதே போன்ற தகவலுக்கும் தவிர வேறு எந்த நோக்கத்திற்காகவும் நீங்கள் அவற்றைப் பயன்படுத்தக்கூடாது என்பதைக் குறிக்கவில்லை. விக்கிபீடியா மற்றும் விக்கிமீடியா தளங்கள் இல்லையெனில், எந்தவொரு உரிமையாளருக்கும் எந்தவொரு உரிமையாளருடனும் தொடர்புபடுத்தப்படாது அல்லது அத்தகைய விக்கிபீடியாவில் எந்தவொரு விதத்தில் பாதுகாக்கப்பட்ட பொருட்களையும் பயன்படுத்த முடியாது. அத்தகைய அல்லது இது போன்ற ஒற்றுமை சொத்து உங்கள் சொந்த ஆபத்தை பயன்படுத்துகிறது.
 விக்கிபீடியாவில் சமீபத்தில் உயிருடன் அல்லது இறந்த ஒரு அடையாளம் காணக்கூடிய நபரை சித்தரிக்கக்கூடிய பொருள் உள்ளது. உயிருள்ள அல்லது சமீபத்தில் இறந்த தனிநபர்களின் படங்களை பயன்படுத்துவது, சில அதிகார எல்லைகளில், அவர்களின் பதிப்புரிமை நிலையிலிருந்து சுயாதீனமான உரிமைகள் தொடர்பான சட்டங்களால் வரையறுக்கப்படுகிறது. இந்த வகையான உள்ளடக்கங்களைப் பயன்படுத்துவதற்கு முன்பு, உங்கள் நோக்கம் பயன்பாட்டின் சூழ்நிலைகளில் பொருந்தும் சட்டங்களின் கீழ் அதைப் பயன்படுத்த உங்களுக்கு உரிமை உள்ளது என்பதை உறுதிப்படுத்துக. நீங்கள் வேறு ஒருவரின் தனிப்பட்ட உரிமைகளை மீறுவதாக இல்லை என்பதை உறுதிசெய்ய நீங்கள் பொறுப்பாக உள்ளீர்கள்
 விக்கிப்பீடியாவில் காணப்படும் தகவல்கள் உங்களுடைய நாட்டின் சட்ட விதிகளை மீறி இருக்கலாம் அல்லது இந்த தகவலை காண்பது உங்கள் நாட்டில் தடை செய்யப்பட்டிருக்கலாம்.  விக்கிபீடியா தரவுத்தளம் அமெரிக்காவில் புளோரிடா மாநிலத்தில் உள்ள ஒரு சேவையகத்தில் சேமிக்கப்படுகிறது. மேலும் அமெரிக்க மாநில மற்றும் கூட்டாட்சி சட்டங்களுக்கு உட்பட்டது. விக்கிப்பீடியாவில் கருத்துகள் தெரிவிப்பது விக்கிப்பீடியா உள்ளடக்கத்தை விநியோகம் செய்வது போன்ற செயல்களுக்கு உங்களுடைய நாட்டின் சட்ட விதிகளின் படி அனுமதி இல்லாமல் இருக்கலாம். இத்தகைய சட்டங்கள் உங்கள் நாட்டில் இருந்தால் அச்சட்டமீறல்களைச் செய்ய விக்கிப்பீடியா உங்களை ஊக்குவிக்கவில்லை, இது போன்ற எந்த விதமான சட்ட மீறல்களுக்கும் விக்கிப்பீடியா பொறுப்பு ஆகாது. இந்த இணையதளத்தை இணைக்க அல்லது பயன்படுத்த, பிரதி உண்டாக்க, அல்லது இங்கு உள்ள தகவல் மறுவெளியீடு செய்ய இந்த தகவலையும் சேர்த்து வெளியிட வேண்டும்.
 உங்களுக்கு குறிப்பிட்ட துறையில் ஆலோசனை தேவைப்பட்டால் (எடுத்துக்காட்டாக மருத்துவம், சட்டம், நிதி, அல்லது இடர் மேலாண்மை) அந்தத் துறையில் அனுபவமுள்ள அல்லது அந்த துறையில் சிறந்தவரின் உதவியை நாடவும்.
 மேலும் பார்க்க:  


URL: https://tr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikipedi:Genel_sorumluluk_reddi

Content: 
  -  
  -  
  - 
 
  insan bilgisi dâhilinde ortak bir kaynak hazırlamak isteyen kişilerin veya grupların oluşturduğu ve herkesin ortak paydasında birleşen çevrim içi bir ansiklopedidir. Projenin temel hedefi, internet bağlantısı ve bir internet tarayıcısı olan herkesi bu içeriğe dâhil etmektir. Lütfen burada yer alan hiçbir bilginin alanında uzman profesyoneller tarafından değerlendirilmediğini, içeriğin size tam, kesin ve güvenilir bir bilgi sunmadığını unutmayınız. Bilgiler imece usulü herkesin katkıları ile oluşturulur.  
 Bu yargı, zaman geçtikçe sizin de göreceğiniz üzere  de yararlı veya kaliteli içerikler bulamayacağınız anlamına gelmemelidir. Yine de    Girilen herhangi bir maddenin içeriği, yakın bir zaman önce, ilgili maddenin konusuna karşıt görüşe sahip şahıslarca değiştirilmiş, zarar verilmiş olabilir. 
 Makalelerin güvenilir sürümlerini seçme ve bunları vurgulamanın yollarını araştırıyoruz. Yazarlar topluluğumuz,   ve   gibi araçlar kullanarak, değiştirilen ve yeni içeriği gözetlemektedir. Ancak  , gönüllüler tarafından düzenli bir şekilde incelenmediği için, okuyucular, buldukları hataları düzeltebilir veya tamamen rastgele olarak   sayfasıyla iletişim kurabilirlerse de, bu onların yasal yükümlülüğü değildir ve bu nedenle de, burada bulunan bilgilerin hiçbirinin, hiçbir amaca veya kullanıma yönelik olarak uygunluğunun garantisi yoktur. Hatta, hataları çeşitli kişilerce gayrıresmî olarak araştırılmış veya   işleminden geçmiş makaleler bile, siz okumadan kısa zaman önce uygunsuz bir şekilde değiştirilmiş olabilir.
 Burada bilginin serbestçe sağlandığını ve sizinle ve site sahip veya kullanıcıları, içeriğin yayınlandığı sunucu sahipleri,  ye katkıda bulunan bireyler, proje yöneticileri, sistem operatörleri ya da bu ve bu proje konularına bağlı kardeş projelere   diğer kişileri hüküm altına alacak bir anlaşma veya kontrat yaratmadığını anladığınızdan, lütfen emin olun. Sınırlandırılmış izinle bu siteden herhangi bir şeyi kopyalama hakkınız tanınmıştır; bu,  nin bir bölümü veya herhangi bir temsilcisi, üyesi, organizatörü ve diğer kullanıcıları üzerinde herhangi bir sözleşme veya sözleşme dışı bir sorumluluk yaratmaz ya da ifade etmez. 
  ötesinde bu bilgiyi kullanmanız veya düzenlemeniz ile ilişkili olarak,  ,   ve onunla ilişkili kardeş projelerin herhangi birisine gönderdiğiniz herhangi bir bilginin herhangi biri tarafından değiştirilmesi, tadil edilmesi, düzenlenmesi veya silinmesi durumunda  deki hiç kimse sorumlu tutulamaz.
  içeriğinde bulunan, bahsedilen herhangi bir tescilli marka, servis tescili, tasarım hakları, kişisel haklar veya buna benzer haklar şahsi sahiplerinin malıdır. Onların burada bulunması, burada orijinal yazarları tarafından yazılan   altındaki   içeriğindeki amaçtan veya bilgilendirme dışında başka bir amaçla kullanılabileceği anlamına gelmez.   ve   siteleri bu kullanımlardan   ve bu hakların sahibiyle bir anlaşması yoktur.   size bu hakları yukarıda belirtilen amaçlar dışında kullanma hakkı da tanıyamaz. Bu hakları veya benzer hakları  .


URL: https://th.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B8%A7%E0%B8%B4%E0%B8%81%E0%B8%B4%E0%B8%9E%E0%B8%B5%E0%B9%80%E0%B8%94%E0%B8%B5%E0%B8%A2:%E0%B8%82%E0%B9%89%E0%B8%AD%E0%B8%9B%E0%B8%8F%E0%B8%B4%E0%B9%80%E0%B8%AA%E0%B8%98%E0%B8%84%E0%B8%A7%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%A1%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%B1%E0%B8%9A%E0%B8%9C%E0%B8%B4%E0%B8%94%E0%B8%8A%E0%B8%AD%E0%B8%9A

Content: วิกิพีเดียเป็นสารานุกรมเนื้อหาเสรีที่เกิดจากการร่วมเขียนออนไลน์ นั่นคือ การรวมตัวโดยใจสมัครของปัจเจกบุคคลและกลุ่มทำงานเพื่อพัฒนาทรัพยากรความรู้ของมนุษย์ที่เป็นของส่วนรวม โครงสร้างของวิกิพีเดียเปิดให้ทุกคนที่เชื่อมต่ออินเทอร์เน็ตเปลี่ยนแปลงเนื้อหาได้ โปรดทราบว่าไม่จำเป็นที่เนื้อหาใด ๆ ในวิกิพีเดียนี้จะได้รับการสอบทานจากนักวิชาชีพที่มีความเชี่ยวชาญพอจะนำเสนอสารสนเทศที่ครบถ้วน แม่นยำ หรือเชื่อถือได้แก่คุณ
 ที่กล่าวมาข้างต้น มิใช่ว่าคุณไม่อาจพบสารสนเทศอันทรงคุณค่าและแม่นยำได้จากวิกิพีเดีย อย่างไรก็ดี   เพราะเนื้อหาในแต่ละบทความอาจเพิ่งถูกแก้ไข เปลี่ยนแปลง หรือทำลาย โดยบุคคลผู้มีความเห็นไม่สอดคล้องกับสถานะองค์ความรู้ปัจจุบันในสาขาที่เกี่ยวข้อง หมายเหตุว่า สารานุกรมอื่นและงานอ้างอิงส่วนใหญ่ยังมีข้อปฏิเสธความรับผิดชอบที่คล้ายกัน
 เรากำลังทำงานโดยอยู่ระหว่างการเลือกและเน้นบทความรุ่นที่น่าเชื่อถือ ผู้ใช้วิกิพีเดียได้ใช้เครื่องมือต่าง ๆ เช่น   และ   ในการสังเกตดูเนื้อหาใหม่และเนื้อหาที่มีการเปลี่ยนแปลง อย่างไรก็ตาม ข้อมูลบนวิกิพีเดียไม่ได้รับการตรวจทานเป็นระเบียบเดียวกัน แม้ผู้อ่านจะสามารถแก้ไขข้อผิดพลาดหรือมีส่วนร่วมในการตรวจทานเนื้อหาของบทความเป็นครั้งคราวได้ แต่ผู้อ่านไม่มีหน้าที่ตามกฎหมายที่ต้องปฏิบัติเช่นนั้น ฉะนั้น สารสนเทศทั้งหมดที่ปรากฏอยู่จึงไม่มีการรับรองความเหมาะสมโดยปริยายแก่ความมุ่งหมายหรือการใช้งานใด ๆ ทั้งสิ้น แม้กระทั่งบทความซึ่งผ่านการตรวจสอบอย่างไม่เป็นทางการหรือขบวนการ แล้วก็ยังอาจมีการแก้ไขอย่างไม่เหมาะสมภายหลังก่อนหน้าที่คุณมาอ่านก็เป็นได้
 
 พึงให้แน่ใจว่า คุณเข้าใจว่า สารสนเทศที่วิกิพีเดียให้บริการนี้ได้รับการจัดหามาอย่างเสรี และไม่มีการทำความตกลงหรือสัญญาใด ๆ ระหว่างคุณกับเจ้าของหรือผู้ใช้ของเว็บไซต์นี้ เจ้าของเซิร์ฟเวอร์ที่จัดเก็บวิกิพีเดีย ผู้ประพันธ์วิกิพีเดียปัจเจกบุคคล ผู้บริหารระบบ ผู้ดูแลระบบของโครงการ หรือใครก็ตามที่เกี่ยวข้องทางหนึ่งทางใดกับโครงการนี้หรือโครงการพี่น้องที่ขึ้นอยู่กับข้อเรียกร้องของคุณต่อพวกเขาโดยตรง คุณได้รับสัญญาอนุญาตที่จำกัดในการคัดลอกทุกอย่างในเว็บไซต์นี้ สัญญาอนุญาตนั้นมิได้สร้างหรือระบุความรับผิดตามสัญญาหรือนอกเหนือสัญญาในส่วนของวิกิพีเดีย หรือตัวแทน สมาชิก ผู้จัดทำหรือผู้ใช้อื่นของวิกิพีเดีย
 ต่อการใช้หรือการแก้ไขเพิ่มเติมสารสนเทศนี้ของคุณนอกเหนือไปจาก  และ    ไม่มีผู้ใดที่เกี่ยวข้องกับวิกิพีเดียต้องรับผิดชอบหากมีผู้ใดเปลี่ยนแปลง แก้ไข แก้ไขเพิ่มเติม หรือนำออกซึ่งสารสนเทศใด ๆ ที่คุณอาจโพสต์บนวิกิพีเดียหรือโครงการที่เกี่ยวข้อง
  เครื่องหมายบริการ เครื่องหมายร่วม และสิทธิในการออกแบบและสิทธิที่คล้ายกันใด ๆ ซึ่งมีการพาดพิง ใช้ หรืออ้างอิงในบทความของสารานุกรมวิกิพีเดียเป็นทรัพย์สินของเจ้าของเครื่องหมายและสิทธินั้น ๆ การใช้เครื่องหมายและสิทธิในวิกิพีเดียมิได้หมายความว่า คุณสามารถใช้เครื่องหมายและสิทธิเพื่อความมุ่งหมายอื่นนอกเหนือไปจากการใช้เชิงสารสนเทศดังเช่นผู้ประพันธ์ต้นฉบับของบทความวิกิพีเดียเหล่านี้ภายใต้แผนสัญญาอนุญาต CC-BY-SA และ GFDL เว้นแต่ระบุไว้เป็นอย่างอื่น เว็บไซต์วิกิพีเดียและวิกิมีเดียมิได้รับอนุญาตอย่างเป็นทางการจากหรือสังกัดกับผู้ถือครองสิทธิดังกล่าว ฉะนั้น วิกิพีเดียไม่อาจให้สิทธิใด ๆ ที่จะใช้ทรัพย์สินที่ได้รับการคุ้มครองได้ การใช้ทรัพย์สินที่ไม่มีรูปร่างดังกล่าวหรือที่คล้ายกันเป็นความเสี่ยงของคุณเอง
 วิกิพีเดียมีวัตถุซึ่งแสดงบุคคลที่พิสูจน์รูปพรรณได้ที่ยังมีชีวิตอยู่หรือเพิ่งเสียชีวิตไปเมื่อไม่นานมานี้ การใช้ภาพของปัจเจกบุคคลที่ยังมีชีวิตอยู่หรือเพิ่งเสียชีวิตนั้น ถูกจำกัดโดยกฎหมายเกี่ยวกับสิทธิส่วนบุคคลในบางเขตอำนาจศาล เป็นเอกเทศจากสถานะลิขสิทธิ์ ก่อนใช้เนื้อหาประเภทนี้ โปรดศึกษาให้แน่ใจว่า คุณมีสิทธิที่จะใช้วัตถุนั้นภายใต้กฎหมายซึ่งบังคับใช้ในพฤติการณ์การใช้ที่คุณเจตนา คุณรับผิดชอบแต่เพียงผู้เดียวหากคุณละเมิดสิทธิส่วนบุคคลของผู้อื่น
 การเผยแพร่สารสนเทศในวิกิพีเดียอาจละเมิดกฎหมายของประเทศหรือเขตอำนาจศาลที่คุณกำลังชมสารสนเทศนี้อยู่ ฐานข้อมูลวิกิพีเดียถูกเก็บรักษาบนเซิร์ฟเวอร์ในรัฐฟลอริดา สหรัฐอเมริกา และคงไว้ตามความคุ้มครองที่กฎหมายท้องถิ่นและของสหรัฐให้ วิกิพีเดียไม่สนับสนุนการละเมิดกฎหมายใด ๆ และไม่สามารถรับผิดชอบต่อการละเมิดกฎหมายเช่นนั้นได้ในกรณีใด ๆ หากคุณลิงก์มายังโดเมนนี้ หรือใช้ ทำซ้ำหรือเผยแพร่ซ้ำซึ่งสารสนเทศซึ่งมีอยู่ในวิกิพีเดีย
 หากคุณกำลังมองหาคำแนะนำ (เช่น ทางการแพทย์ กฎหมาย การเงิน หรือการจัดการความเสี่ยง) โปรดมองหาผู้เชี่ยวชาญซึ่งมีความรู้หรือใบอนุญาตในท้องที่ของคุณ


URL: https://wuu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:%E5%85%8D%E8%B4%A3%E5%A3%B0%E6%98%8E

Content: 是内容开放个在线个百科全书，伊是由个人搭仔团体志愿合作开发个人类知识个共有资源。箇只计划个体系允许任何人通过网络来修改其内容，故咾请注意侬勒拉箇埭寻着个内容，並弗一定畀任何相关领域个专家或者专业人员审查过，因此维基百科呒没办法保证畀侬看个信息是完善、正确、可靠个。
 箇並弗指侬勒拉维基百科浪寻弗着有价值个信息搭仔正确个信息，只是 。任何特定条目个内容侪可能勒拉最近畀人修改脱、破坏脱或者畀对相关领域认知状况弗一致个人改过。请注意，大多数百科全书同参考作品也有差弗多个 。
 阿拉社群当中活跃个编写人会得用 搭仔 工具来监视新个搭仔更改个内容。必过，维基百科个内容并呒没普遍接受同行评审；虽然讲读者好修改错误或者参与到非正式个同行评审当中去，伊拉並呒没法律义务箇能介做，故咾侬勒拉箇埭看到个获得个所有信息侪弗对或是针对特定目的或是一般使用个适用性提供任何暗示个保证。即使讲有星条目已经通过同行评审或者通过典范条目等个评选，伊拉还是咾有可能勒拉侬浏览之前刚刚修改过。
 
 请确认侬晓得，侬勒拉箇埭获得个信息侪是自由个、免费个，任何人搭侬呒没契约或者合同关系，无论是本站个用户、所有人、服务器提供商、任何维基百科参与个人自家、管理员，还是其他任何跟本计划搭仔相关计划有直接或者间接关系个个人或者团体。勒拉有限许可下头，侬好随便从本站拷贝任何内容，但箇並弗表示维基百科或者伊个代理人、成员、组织人或者其他用户对伊承担任何契约性个或者契约以外个责任。
 除脱知识共享 — 署名-相同方式共享 4.0 国际协议（CC-BY-SA）搭仔GNU自由文档许可证（GFDL），侬搭维基百科之间呒没协议跟使用或者修改箇星信息有关系；维基百科浪也呒没任何人应该对修改、编辑或者移除脱侬勒拉维基百科浪或者相关计划浪张贴个任何信息负责。
 维基百科条目里向用个或者提到个任何商标（包括服务商标、集体商标），或者是设计权搭仔提到个其他权利，侪属于渠对应所有人个财产。维基百科条目个原作者勒拉箇埭根据CC-BY-SA搭仔GFDL许可方案来用箇星商标，箇个意思並弗是侬也好做相同或者类似目的个使用。除脱另外有说明，维基百科或者维基媒体基金会跟任何箇类权利个所有人之间弗会有关系，故咾也呒办法授权侬用任何受到保护个内容。侬勒拉用任何箇种或者相似个无形财产个辰光要自家承担风险。
 维基百科包括好确认身份个活拉个或者最近过世个人个传记。勒拉某些司法管理区，有关 个法律限制随便用活拉个人或者最近故脱个人个照片，独立于箇星图个著作权状态。勒拉用箇星类型个内容之前，请确保跟你个目的相关个法律啊是真个畀侬用箇星内容个权利。侬需要对确保弗侵犯其他人个人格权全权负责。
 请注意，侬拿侬拉箇埭寻着个信息发布出去有可能会得违反侬勒拉个国家或者司法管理区个法律。维基百科个数据库侪存拉美国个服务器里向，故咾所有内容侪受到当地法律搭仔美国联邦法律个保护。侬勒拉个国家或者司法管辖区个法律有可能呒没对相同种类个言话或者发行进行保护。维基百科並弗鼓励任何人违反法律，故咾假使侬链接到箇只域名或者使用、拷贝、转载本站个信息，维基百科呒办法为可能个违反法律个做法负责。
 假使讲侬到箇埭个想法是看到具体个建议（比方讲勒拉医学、法律或者风险管理方面咾啥），请侬去咨询一名注册或者勒拉目标领域里向有能力个专业人士。


URL: https://tl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Pangkalahatang_pagtatanggi

Content: Mangyari ring basahin ang mga sumusunod:
 
 HINDI GINAGARANTIYA NG WIKIPEDIA NA ANG IMPORMASYONG NAKALAGAY SA MGA NILALAMAN NITO AY KUMPLETO, TAMA, MAAASAHAN AT MAPAGKAKATIWALAAN.
 Ang Wikipedia ay isa pong malaya at bukas na ensiklopedyang sama-samang pinagtutulungan ng mga boluntaryong indibidwal at grupo sa mithiing makagawa ng isang pangkalahatang pinagkukunan ng impormasyon. Dahil sa anyo ng proyektong ito, maaari pong baguhin ng kahit sinumang nakakonekta sa Internet ang kahit ano sa mga nilalaman nito. Mangyari pong dapat niyong malaman na hindi po dumaan sa hanay ng mga eksperto ng larangang kinabibilangan ng isang partikular na artikulo ang impormasyong nakalagay. Sa madaling salita po, hindi po masasabing kumpleto, tama, maasahan o mapagkakatiwalaan ang kahit anong impormasyon na nakalagay rito.
 Gayunpaman, hindi ibig sabihin nito ay hindi ka na makakahanap ng mahalaga at tamang impormasyon rito sa Wikipedia. Sa totoo lang, madalas kang makakakita ng tamang impormasyon rito.
 Subalit, pakatandaan lamang po na   Maaari agad mabago ang nilalaman ng kahit sino upang babuyin o di kaya'y dahil sa sumasalungat ng opinyon niya sa napagkasunduan ng nakakarami sa partikular na larangang iyon. 
 Mangyari rin pong dapat niyong malaman na may kaparehong mga pagtatanggi rin ang ibang mga ensiklopedya at pinagkukunan ng impormasyon.
 Ginagamit ng aming aktibong komunidad ng mga tagapatnugot ( ) ang mga kagamitang tulad ng   at   para bantayan ang mga pumapasok na bago at binagong mga nilalaman. Gayunpaman, hindi pantay na nasusuri ng nakakarami ang kabuuan ng Wikipedia - pwedeng itama ng mga mambabasa ang mga kamalian o di kaya'y sumali sa mga pagsusuring ginagawa, pero wala silang tungkuling ligal na gawin iyon at dahil sa kadahilanang iyon, walang katiyakan at garantiya na maaaring magamit ang kahit anong impormasyong nakalagay rito para sa kahit anong paggamit o kung anuman. Maaari ring mabago ang mga artikulong nasuri na nang impormal o di kaya'y itinampok na ( ), bago mo pa mang makita't mabasa iyon.
 
 Siguraduhing naiintindihan mo na binibigay ang impormasyong nilalagay rito nang libre, at walang kasunduan o kontratang ginawa sa pagitan mo at ng mga may-ari at tagagamit ng sayt na ito, ang mga may-ari ng mga   kung saan ito nakalagay, mga indibidwal na nag-ambag sa Wikipedia, kahit sino sa mga tagapangasiwa ng mga proyekto, mga   (mga tagapangasiwa ng isang sistemang may maraming tagagamit), o sa kahit sinumang konektado sa proyektong ito sa mga kakambal nitong mga proyekto   na mapapailalim sa mga paghahabol mo sa kanila nang direkta. Binibigyan ka ng isang limitadong lisensiya sa pagkopya ng kahit anong nasa sayt; hindi ito gumagawa o nagsasabing may pananagutang kontraktwal o ekstrakontraktwal ang Wikipedia o kahit sino sa mga ahente, miyembro, tagapag-ayos, o sa iba pang mga tagagamit nito.
  tungkol sa paggamit mo o sa pagbago sa impormasyong ito na lagpas sa saklaw ng lisensiyang   (walang hurisdiksyon, hal. bansa) na   (CC-BY-SA) at ang lisensiyang   (GFDL), at wala ring responsibilidad ang kahit sinuman sa Wikipedia sa pagbago mo, pagmodipika, o pagtanggal ng impormasyong ipinaskil ( ) mo sa Wikipedia o sa kahit alin sa mga kaugnay nitong proyekto.
 Pagmamay-ari ng nagmamay-ari sa kanila ang kahit anong mga tatak ( ), tatak ng serbisyo ( ), tatak ng 7 9809-[9-0m==ng paggamit ng impormasyon tulad ng naisip ng mga may-akda ng mga artikulong ito sa Wikipedia na nasa ilalim ng mga lisensiyang CC-BY-SA at GFDL. Maliban lamang kung nakasaad, hindi ineendorso ni kasapi ang Wikipedia at Wikimedia sa mga may-ari ng n =f[v0d0=x0 ]8 -q]-9w-9s-09 
 Naglalaman ang Wikipedia ng mga materyales na maaaring makatukoy ng isang buhay o kamamatay lang na tao. Nililimitahan ng mga batas na may kaugnayan sa karapatan sa pagkatao ng ilang hurisdiksyon ang paggamit sa mga larawan ng buhay o kamamatay lang na tao, at iba pa ito sa estado ng karapatan sa pagmamay-ari ng mga ito. Siguraduhing may karapatan kang gamitin ang mga iyon sa ilalim ng mga batas na malalapat sa kalagayan ng panggagamitan mo.  
 Maaaring labag sa batas ng bansa kung saan mo nababasa ang impormasyong nakalagay rito ang paglathala ng impormasyong nasa Wikipedia. Nakatago ang lahat ng impormasyon ng Wikipedia sa mga   nito sa Estados Unidos, at patuloy na pinangangalagaan ito sa ilalim ng proteksyon ng mga lokal at pederal na batas. Maaaring hindi protektado o pinapayagan ng mga batas ng iyong bansa o hurisdiksyon ang kaparehong antas ng pagsalita at/o paglimbag. Hindi hinihimok ng Wikipedia ang paglabag sa kahit anong mga batas, at hindi rin responsable ito para sa mga paglabag sa batas na iyon, kung sakali mang nagkawing ( ) ka sa dominyong ( ) ito o maging ang paggamit, pagkopya, o paglimbag muli ng mga impormasyong nakalagay rito.
 Kung nangangailangan ka ng tiyak na payo (tulad ng medikal, ligal, pinansiyal, o pamamahala sa peligro), mangyaring humingi ng payo sa isang propesyonal na lisensiyado o may alam sa naturang larangan.


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RecentChanges

Content: This is a list of recent changes to Wikipedia.
 This page is not available in other languages.

URL: https://yi.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D7%B0%D7%99%D7%A7%D7%99%D7%A4%D6%BC%D7%A2%D7%93%D7%99%D7%A2:%D7%A7%D7%9C%D7%90%D7%A8%D7%A9%D7%98%D7%A2%D7%9C%D7%95%D7%A0%D7%92

Content: פאלגנד זענען עטליכע קלארשטעלונגען וואס איז וויכטיג צו נעמען אין אכט בעת איר באניצט זיך מיט דער  , די רשות דא צו ליינען איז אויף די פאלגנדע תנאים און אייער הסכמה צו זיי.
 מיר זענען דאנקבאר אויב איר וועט אייניגן פון אייער צייט דאס דורכליינען דעם גאנצן בלאט. און מיר האפן איר וועט הנאה האבן פון דער איבערלעבונג וואס וויקיפעדיע שטעלט אייך צו.
 ביטע מאכט זיכער אז איר פארשטייט אז די אינפארמאציע וואס ווערט דא צוגעשטעלט איז אהערגעשטעלט אויף א פרייען און אומזינסטן אופן, און עס איז נישט אפגעראכטן געווארן קיין שום אפמאכן אדער קאנטראקטן צווישן אייך און און די בעלי בתים פון דער פונדאציע אדער אנדערע באניצער אין דעם סייט, די בעלי בתים פון די סערווערס וואס אין זיי איז איינגעשפייכלערט די ענציקלאפעדיע, די פריוואטע פינאנציעלע ביישטייערער צו  , יעדער מנהל פון פון אלע פראיעקטן, טעכניקער אדער יעדער סיי וואסארא אנדערע מענטש וואס איז פארבינדן אויף סיי וואסארא אופן צו דעם פראיעקט אדער אנדערע וואס זענען עקספאוזט צו אייער טענה אויף א דירעקטן וועג. עס ווערט אייך געגעבן א   פון דא צו קאפירן טעקסט, און אויך בילדער.
 די אינפארמאציע ווערט אהערגעשטעלט אומזינסט, און עס איז   קיין שום אפמאך אדער פארשטענדעניש  , צווישן אייך און   אין צוזאמנהאנג צו אייער באניצונג אדער יעדע סיי וואסערע דיינער אן ענדערונג אין די אינפארמאציע, קיינער אין וויקיפעדיע איז נישט פאראנטווארטליך אויף קיין שום ענדערונג רעדאקטירונג, צולייגונג אדער אויסמעקעריי פון אלע אינפארמאציע, וואס איר זענט אויסגעשטעלט צו שרייבן אין   אדער אין סיי וואסארא אנדערע פראיעקט פארבינדן צו איר.
 די שרייבער אין וויקיפעדיע פארפליכטן זיך צו האנדלען אין איינקלאנג צום געזעץ מיטן גענצליכן תמימות, מיט א פערזענליכער און פובליק פאראטווארטליכקייט נישט צו ברעכן דאס געזעץ און נישט צו וואנדאליזירן די אינהאלט וואס ערשיינען אויפן סייט. עס איז נישט ערלויבט אריינצוברענגן טעקסט אדער פיילס פון סייטס וואס זענען באשיצט מיט קאפי רייט געזעצן, לשון הרע, פארשמוצנגן קעגן מענשטן, אדער א עבירה פון יעדן סיי וואסארא אנדערע געזעץ, אריינגערעכנט אויפצודעקן סודות פון לאנד, פריוואטע דאקומענטן, פריוואטקייט אינפארמאציע וואס פארשטערן די פריוואטקייט געזעצן פון דאס לאנד, פאנטענטן און ביזנעס סודות, און ביישפילן פון אנדערע.
 וואנדאליזירן ארטיקלען במזיד איז אן עבירה פון אינטערנעץ געזעץ. 
 וויקיפעדיע נעמט נישט קיין אחריות אויף קאפירעכט פארלעצונגען, לשון הרע, ארויסלאזן בשמוצינגן אויף אנדערע מענטשן, אדער סיי וואסארא בארעכונג פון סיי וואסארא געזעץ, אריינגערעכנט די ארויסגעבן סודות פון סיי וואסארא לאנד, פריוואטע דאקומענטן, ביישפילן, פאטענטן און ביזנעס סודות, און די פאראנטווארטליכקייט אויף די אקטן ליגן בלויז אויף די שרייבערס אליינס.
 די וויקיפעדיע דאטנבאזע איז איינגעשפייכלערט אויף א סערווער אין דעם שטאט   אין די  , און דאס איז אויפגעהאלטן און רעפערענץ צו די שוץ צוגעשטעלט דורך די לאקאלע און פעדאראלע געזעץ.
 געזעצן פון אייער לאנד אדער יוריסדיקציע קען מעגלעך נישט באשיצן אדער ערלויבן די זעלביגע סארט פארם פון רייד אדער פארשפרייטונג.
 וויקיפעדיע טוט חלילה נישט צורעדן צו ברעכן סיי וואסארא געזעצן; און קען נישט זיין פאראנטווארטליך פאר די עבירות פון די געזעצן, זאלט איר חלילה לינקן צו דעם דאומעין אדער נוצן, איבערקאפירן, אדער פובליצירן די אינפארמאציע דא אנאהאלטן.
 עס איז זייער מעגלעך אז פובליקירן די אינפארמאציע דא קען זיין אן עבירה לויט די געזעצן פון אייער לאנד אדער רעליגיע וואס האט די יוריסדיקציע דארטן פון ווי איר ליינט די אינפארמאציע.
 א האנדל-מארקע, באדינסט-מארקע, קאלעקציע-מארקע, אנצייכענען-רעכט און אזוינע רעכטן וואס ווערן דערמאנט, געניצט אדער ציטירט אין די ארטיקלען אין וויקיפעדיע זענען די אייגנטום פון זייערע אייגנטימערס. כאטש זיי זענען געניצט דא טאר מען נישט ניצן זיי פאר קיין שום אנדערן צוועק נאר וואס די מחברים האבן דערלויבט דורכן  GFDL דערלויבניש סכעמע. אחוץ ווען עס שטייט אזוי בפירוש די וויקיפעדיע און וויקימעדיע ערטער זענען נישט אינדארסירט און נישט פארבינדן מיט אבי  ווער עס האלט די רעכטן, און וויקיפעדיע שענקט נישט קיי רעכטן צו ניצן וואסערע געשיצטע מאטעריאלן. ווען איר ניצט אזעלכע אייגנטום נעמט איר אויף זיך פולע אחריות.
 וויקיפעדיע איז אן אנליין אפענער-אינהאלט קאלעבראטיווער ענציקאלפעדיע, ד.ה. א וואלענטירליכער איינזאמעלונג פון איטליכע מענטשן אדער גרופעס, וואס איינער קען נישט דעם צווייטען, וואס זענען פאראייניגט בלויז מיטן איין אייציגן ציל, צוזאמנארבייטן צו אנטוויקלען א בשותפות'דיגער מקור פאר מענטשליכער דעת. דער סטרוקטאר פונעם פראיעקט ערלויבט יעדן מיט א אינטערנעט פארבינדונג צו טוישן איר אינהאלט. ביטע זייט געצה'ט אז גארנישט וואס איר טרעפט דא איז זיכער איבערגעקוקט געווארן דורך מענטשן מיט די פארלאנגטע עקספערטיז, פאסענד צו אייך אהערשטלען מיט די פארגענצליכסטע,  ריכטיגע אדער פארלעסליכע אינפארמאציע.
 דאס איז נישט צו זאגן אז איר וועט נישט טרעפן ווערדפולע און אויסגעהאלטענע אינפארמאציע אין וויקיפעדיע; רוב מאל וועסטו יא. פון דעסט וועגן דאך,   די אינהאלט פון יעדע ארטיקל קען לעצטענס זיך האבן געטוישט, וואנדאלאזירט אדער גענדערט דורך איינעם וואס זיין מיינונג טוט נישט זיין אין איינקלאנג מיט די סטאטוס פון דעת אין דעם רעלאוואנטן פעלד.
 מיר ארבעטן אויף וועגן צו סעלעקטירן ארויסהייבן און אונטערשטרייכן פארלעסליכע ווערסיעס פון ארטיקלען. 
 אונזער אקטיווער קהילה פון רעדאקטארן באנוצן זיך מיט ספעציעלע געצייג דערפאר, ווי די   זייט, און   פיעדס צו מאניטערן נייעם און טוישענדן אינהאלט. פון דעסטוועגן דאך, איז וויקיפדיע נישט איוניפארמעלי חברים איבערגעקוקט; בשעת ליינער קענען טאקע פאררעכטן פעלערס, אדער טאקע זיך אריינלאזן און נאכקוקן און איבערגיין זייערע חברים'ס ארבייט, האבן זיי אבער נישט קיין שום לעגאלע פליכט דאס צו טאן, דעריבער זענען אלע אינפארמאציע וואס איר ליינט דא אן א אחריותדיגער ווארענטי אויף איר פאסיגקייט פאר סיי וואסארא ציל פון אייער דאס נוצן. אפילו די ארטיקלן וואס זענען יא איבערגעקוקט געווארן, און אפילו די  , קען דאס שפעטער געטוישט ווערן אויף צום שלעכט, נאכדעם וואס זיי זענען איבערגעקוקט געווארן.  
 
 
 ביטע כאפט אן אלע מעגלעכקייטן וואס פארלאנגען זיך איינצוזען אז אלע אינפארמאציע וואס איר זענט קונה פון   איז ריכטיג און פעסטגעשטעלט.
 אויב ס'איז דא פארשלאגן וועגן אקטיוויטעטן וואס זענען געפערלעך, אומלעגאל אדער נישט מאראליש, געדענקט אז יעדער איינער קען שרייבן אינפארמאציע אין  , און קען זיין אז זיי שטימען נישט  בכדי לספק עבורך את המידע, שנודע לך לגביו צורך באמצעי זהירות הולמים, או בצעדים שבהם אתה יכול לנקוט כדי למנוע פציעה, נזק גופני או כל נזק אחר לעצמך, ברכוש או מוניטין.
 איר דארפט זיין אויפמערקזאם אז אלץ וואס מען טרעפט אין וויקיפעדיע קען זיין נישט אינגאנצן אויסגעהאלטן, אדער פארגרייזט אדער אומלעגאל.
 פארלאזט זיך נישט אויף קיין שום אינפארמאציע וואס איר טרעפט אין וויקיפעדיע; די בעסטע זאך איז אליין באשטעטיקן.
 אויב איר דארפט ספעציפישע באראטונג (מעדיציניש, געריכטלעך, סכנה באהאנדלען), קאנפערירן אן עקספערט וואס איז ליעצנצירט אדער טאקע געלערנט אינעם פעלד.
 דער צוועק פון וויקיפעדיע איז צו ווערן א זאמלונג פון מענטשלעכע אינפארמאציע, און דערום אנטהאלט זי א סאך ארטיקלען געשריבן וואלונטערלעך דורך א סאך שרייבער.
 מען דארף געדענקען אז וויקיפעדיע איז א וואלונטערלעכער פראיעקט, און דערום קען עס ווערן א ביסל לאנג איידער אז וואנדאליזם וועט ווערן באהאנדלט. וויקיפעדיע נעמט נישט קיין אחריות איבער קיין שאדנס אין דער צייט.
 וויקיפעדיע איז א "יונגע" ענציקלאפעדיע וואס ווערט נאך אנטוויקלעט, און דערום ארטיקלען קענען אנטהאלטן גרייזן, איינשטעלן, קעגנזאצן אדער אומפאסונג מיט די אויבנדערמאנטע כללים.
ווייל וויקיפעדיע איז וואלונטערלעך קען זי נישט נעמען קיין אחריות איבער שאדנס פון ווענדן זיך צו די ארטיקלען. אויב עס איז דא א פארלעצונג פון די כללים וועט מען מאכן יעדן דראנג צו פארריכטן ארטיקלען.
 
 אויב זענט איר אין געברויך פון פראפעסיאנעלע הילף אדער עצות, צום ביישפיל, רפואה, דאקטעריי, לעגאליטעט, הלכה, מנהג, פינאנציעל, אדער סכנה באהאנדלען, א.א.וו. דאן ביטע זוכט אויף א פראפעסיאנאלער עקספערט וואס איז געליינסענסט און געלערנט אין דעם פעלד.
 וויקיפעדיע אנטהאלט א סאך סוביעקטן וועגן רפואה. טראץ דעם קענען מיר נישט צוזאגן בשום אופן אז די אינפארמאציע איז פארלעסלעך. אפילו ווען אלץ איז געשריבן ריכטיק איז נישטא קיין גאראנטי אז עס איז צוגעפאסט צו אייערע סימפטאמען.
 מעדיצינישע אינפארמאציע אין   איז, אין גוטן פאל, אלגעמיין און קען נישט פארבייטן קיין עצה פון א  , ד"ה א באפלומאכטיקער דאקטער, ווארטערקע, אפטייקער אדער אנדערע אזלעכע פערזאנען.   איז נישט קיין דאקטער.
 קיין איינע פון די ביישטייערער, ספאנסערס, אדימיניסטראטורן, אדער סיי ווער אנדערשט פארבונדן מיט וויקיפעדיע קען נישט נעמען קיין אחריות איבער די רעזולטאטן אדער בייטראגן פון פרווון צו ניצן אדער אדאפטירן טיילן פון ריכטיקער אדער פאלשער אינפארמאציע באווייזט אינעם וועבזייטל.
 
 נאטירלעך זענען אייך געבעטען ביישטייערן צו ארטיקלען וועגן   אדער   און ניצן יעדן אינהאלט וואס געפינט זיך דא אונטער דער GNU פרייע באנוץ ליצענץ.
 וויקיפעדיע אנטהאלט ארטיקלען וועגן א סאך געזעצלעכע טעמעס. אבער, ווייל זי איז א פריינע ענציקלאפעדיע קען די אינפארמאציע ווערן אומפינקטלעך. די דאזיקע ארטיקלען זאלן נישט ווערן געזען אלס פינקטלעכע געזעצלעכע אינפארמאציע.
ייתכנו שינויים בדין החל ממדינה למדינה, וכן יתכנו שינויים בחקיקה ובפסיקה של כל מדינה ומדינה. ערכים יכולים להיות מבוססים על המצב המשפטי ששרר בעת הכנתם, אולם עובדה מסוימת, תקדים חדש, או הלך רוח שונה בבתי המשפט, עשויים לשנות את המצב, ואף להפוך אותו לחלוטין.
 המידע המצוי בוויקיפדיה הינו מידע כללי, ואין בו כדי להחליף מידע הניתן על ידי בעל מקצוע. על המעונין בייעוץ משפטי פרטני לפנות לעורך דין העוסק בתחום, ואין ויקיפדיה אחראית לכל נזק או תוצאה שתגרם בעקבות הסתמכות על המידע המופיע בה.
 אין הכותבים בוויקיפדיה נותנים ייעוץ משפטי כהגדרתו בחוק, ואינם מתיימרים ליתן ייעוץ כזה.
 ויקיפדיה נערכת על ידי הציבור הרחב של משתמשי האינטרנט ולכן תיתכנה השחתות הן של מלל והן של תמונות. אין ויקיפדיה אחראית להשחתות אלה, ועושה כל מאמץ על מנת לתקנן.
 כעיקרון ויקיפדיה מאפשרת העלאת תמונות או כתיבת תוכן אשר אינו מפר את הכללים שלה, ואת חוקי המדינה, כך מאופשרת העלאת כל תוכן מקורי בעל ערך אנציקלופדי, אשר ניתן לתומכו, ואשר אינו מהווה הפרה של זכויות יוצרים ומבצעים. הפרות של כלל זה הינן השחתה, וויקיפדיה עושה כל מאמץ למנוע אותן.


URL: https://te.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B0%B5%E0%B0%BF%E0%B0%95%E0%B1%80%E0%B0%AA%E0%B1%80%E0%B0%A1%E0%B0%BF%E0%B0%AF%E0%B0%BE:%E0%B0%AE%E0%B0%AE%E0%B1%8D%E0%B0%AE%E0%B0%B2%E0%B1%8D%E0%B0%A8%E0%B0%BF_%E0%B0%95%E0%B0%B2%E0%B0%B5%E0%B0%82%E0%B0%A1%E0%B0%BF

Content:  లో వివిధ విషయాలకు సంబంధించి మమ్మల్ని కలవడం కొరకు అవసరమైన సమాచారం ఈ పేజీ లో లభిస్తుంది. 
 కొత్త వ్యాసం ఎవరైనా రాయవచ్చు. ముందుగా, దిద్దుబాటు యొక్క   తెలుసుకోవాలి.   కూడా తెలుసుకోవాలి. ఇవన్నీ తెలుసుకున్న తరువాత,   తో కొత్త పేజీని మొదలు పెట్టవచ్చు. ఇంకా సహాయం కావాలంటే,   ఉండనే ఉంది. 
 వికీపీడియా కు ఒక కొత్త వ్యాస విషయాన్ని సూచించ దలస్తే,   పేజీ లో చెయ్యవచ్చు. ఆ పేజీ లో విషయ సూచిక ఉంది, మీ సూచనను అక్కడ చేర్చవచ్చు.
 వికీపీడియా వ్యాసాలను ఎవరైనా సరిదిద్దవచ్చు. పేజీ లో తప్పు గమనిస్తే ఆ పేజీ కి పైన ఉన్న   లింకును నొక్కండి. అప్పుడు వచ్చే దిద్దుబాటు పేజీ లోని టెక్స్ట్‌ బాక్స్‌ లో తప్పును సరిదిద్దండి. దిద్దుబాట్లు చేసేటపుడు,  ను కూడా జత చేయండి. దిద్దుబాటు పై సహాయం కావాలంటే,   చదవండి. 
 వ్యాసాన్ని మెరుగు పరచడం పై చర్చించడానికి   వెళ్ళ్ళండి. వ్యాసం పేజీ కి వెళ్ళి, అక్కడ "చర్చ" ను నొక్కితే చర్చా పేజీ కి వెళ్ళవచ్చు. సభ్యులతో విడిగా మాట్లాడాలంటే, వారి   కి వెళ్ళాలి. సభ్యుని పేరును నొక్కితే, సదరు సభ్యుని పేజీ కి వెళ్తారు, అక్కడ "చర్చ" నొక్కితే, ఆ సభ్యుని చర్చా పేజీ కి వెళ్తారు. అక్కడ మీరు చేసే మార్పు చేర్పులు, ఆ సభ్యుడు లాగిన్‌ కాగానే కనిపిస్తాయి.
 వికీపీడియా లో ఎవరైనా రాయవచ్చు కాబట్టి, ఇక్కడ దుశ్చర్యలు జరగటం సహజమే. వికీపీడియా లో దుశ్చర్య అంటే, వ్యాసాన్ని చెడగొట్టే ఉద్దేశ్యంతో పనికిరాని చెత్తను పేజీల్లో పెట్టడం. మీరు ఏ పేజీ లో నైనా దుశ్చర్య ను గమనిస్తే   పాటించి, వ్యాసాన్ని పూర్వపు కూర్పుకు తీసుకొని పోవచ్చు. తరువాత కూడా ఆ సభ్యుడు అటువంటి దుశ్చర్యలు చేస్తూ ఉంటే, ఇతర సభ్యులను ఈ విషయమ్పై అప్రమత్తం చెయ్యండి. దీని కొరకు మీరు ఈ పేజీ లను చూడండి:    
 అప్పుడు, అవసరమైతే,   ఆ దుష్టుని  , సభ్యత్వాన్ని నిషేధించుతారు. 
 ఒక పేజీ ని పూర్తిగా తొలగించవలసి ఉందని మీరు భావిస్తే, పైగా అది వికీపీడియా   అనుగుణంగా ఉందని అనుకుంటే,   పేజీ లో ప్రతిపాదించండి. ఆ పేజీలో, అడుగున, తొలగింపు కొరకు ఎలా ప్రతిపాదించాలో వివరణ ఉంది. ఏదైనా పేజీని అన్యాయంగా తొలగించారని మీరు భావిస్తే,   లో మీ వాదనను వినిపించండి. 
 వికీపీడియా సభ్యుని గురించి తెలుసుకోవడానికి, ఆ సభ్యుని పేరును నొక్కండి; వారి   కి వెళ్తారు. ఏ సభ్యుని తోనైనా చర్చించాలంటే, ఆ సబ్యుని పేజీలో   ను నొక్కండి. కొంతమంది సభ్యులు వికీపీడియా ద్వారా ఈ-మెయిల్స్‌ ను అనుమతిస్తారు. అటువంటి సభ్యుని పేజీ లో, తెరకు ఎడమ అడుగు భాగంలో "E-mail this user" అనే లింకు కనిపిస్తుంది. కొంత మంది సభ్యులు ఇంకొంత సమాచారం కూడా (ఈ-మెయిల్‌, తక్షణ సందేశం, ఫోను మొదలైనవి) తమ పేజీలో ఇస్తారు. 
 చాలా మంది సభ్యులను ఒకేసారి సంప్రదించాలనుకుంటే, మీరు   లలో సభ్యత్వం తీసుకుని అక్కడ సందేశం ఇవ్వవచ్చు, లేదా   వద్ద చర్చించవచ్చు. సందేశాల సంగ్రహం నుండి పాత సందేశాలను చూడవచ్చు కూడా. 
 
 వికీపీడియా గురించిన సమాచారం కొరకు   ఒక మంచి వనరు. ప్రతీ పేజీ కి (వ్యాసం పేజీలు, విధాన పేజీలు, సభ్యుని పేజీలు) కూడా దాని చర్చా పేజీ ఉంది. ఒక విషయానికి లేదా సభ్యునికి సంబంధించిన సమాచారం కొరకు, ఈ చర్చా పేజీయే సరియైన స్థానం. 
 ఇది కాకుండా, సాధారణ ప్రశ్నలకు 4 ప్రదేశాలు ఉన్నాయి: 
 పై స్థలాల్లో మీ ప్రశ్నను అడిగిన తరువత కొన్ని రోజుల పాటు, క్రమం తప్పకుండా ఆ పేజీని సమాధానాల కొరకు చూస్తూండండి. 
 వికీమీడియా ఫౌండేషన్‌ కూ సంనంధించిన వివరాలకై (వాటి కొరకు మాత్రమే)   కు ఈ-మెయిల్‌ చెయ్యండి. 
 విలేకరులు మరియు ఇతర ఆసక్తి పరులు   ఈ-మెయిల్‌ పంపవచ్చు. మీరు ఈ జాబితాలో సభ్యులు కాకపోతే మీ ఈ-మెయిల్‌ ను నిర్వాహకుడు అనుమతించవలసి ఉంటుంది. మీరు చాలా ఈ-మెయిల్‌ లు పంపాలనుకుంటే సభ్యత్వ వివరాల కొరకు   ను చూడండి. 
 వికీపీడియన్లను సంప్రదించదలిస్తే,   మరియు   లను చూడండి. 
 మీకు పత్రికా సమాచార సేకరణ అవసరమైతే, పైగా మీరు విలేకరి  , మీరు టెర్రీ ఫూట్‌ ను +1 727 231 0101 లో సంప్రదిస్తే ఆయన మిమ్మల్ని   కు కలుపుతారు. లేదా మీరు జిమ్మీ కి సరాసరి వికీ.చొమ వద్ద ఈ-మెయిల్‌ పంపవచ్చు. ఆ ఫోనును   పత్రికా విచారణలకే వాడండి. వేరే వటికి దానిని వాడ రాదు. 
 వికీమీడియా ఫౌండేషన్‌ పత్రికా అధికారి వివరాలకై   చూడండి. 
 వికీపీడియా విధానాల పై చర్చ   వద్ద చెయ్యవచ్చు. 
 కొన్నిసార్లు దుశ్చర్యల కారణంగా   ను నిషేధించ వలసి రావచ్చు (పైన చూడండి). అయితే, ఒక్కోసారి, వేరే వాళ్ళు కూడా అదే అడ్రసును వాడుతూ ఉండవచ్చు.
 ఒకవేళ అదే మీరయితే, మీరు దిద్దుబాట్లు జరపబోయినపుడు ఎదురైన సందేశం లోని సూచనలను పాటించండి. లేదా   లోని నిర్వాహకులను సంప్రదించవచ్చు.(ఈ-మెయిల్‌ లింకు ఉన్న నిర్వాహకులకు ఈ-మెయిల్‌ పంపవచ్చు). లేదా మీ సభ్యుని చర్చా పేజీలో సందేశం పెట్టండి (సాధారణంగా మీ సభ్యుని చర్చా పేజీ పనిచేస్తూనే ఉంటుంది). 
 మీకు కాపీ హక్కు ఉన్న వ్యాసం మీ అనుమతి లేకుండా వికీపీడియా లో వాడితే   చెయ్యవచ్చు. మరింత సమాచారానికై  చూడండి. 
 కాపీ హక్కుల అతిక్రమణ అని మీరు     ఉన్న సూచనలను పాటించండి. 
 వికీపీడియా లోని వ్యాసాలను వాడుకోవడానికి అనుమతి కావాలా? ( ) ఇప్పటికే మీకా అనుమతి - వ్యాపార ప్రయోజనాల కోసం కూడా - ఇచ్చేసింది. అయితే, మీరు లైసెన్సు నిబంధనలను పాటించాలి. వివరాలకు   చూడండి.


URL: https://tcy.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B2%B5%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%95%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%AA%E0%B3%80%E0%B2%A1%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%AF:%E0%B2%B8%E0%B2%BE%E0%B2%AE%E0%B2%BE%E0%B2%A8%E0%B3%8D%E0%B2%AF%E0%B3%8A_%E0%B2%B9%E0%B2%95%E0%B3%8D%E0%B2%95%E0%B3%8D%E2%80%8C_%E0%B2%A8%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%B0%E0%B2%BE%E0%B2%95%E0%B2%B0%E0%B2%A3%E0%B3%86%E0%B2%B2%E0%B3%81

Content: Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content.  Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.  However,    The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.  Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works  .
 Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content.  However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever.  Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC-BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or deceased recently.  The use of images of living or recently deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.   
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial or risk management), please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://tcy.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B2%B5%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%95%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%AA%E0%B3%80%E0%B2%A1%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%AF:%E0%B2%B8%E0%B2%BE%E0%B2%AE%E0%B2%BE%E0%B2%A8%E0%B3%8D%E0%B2%AF%E0%B3%8A_%E0%B2%B9%E0%B2%95%E0%B3%8D%E0%B2%95%E0%B3%8D%E2%80%8C_%E0%B2%A8%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%B0%E0%B2%BE%E0%B2%95%E0%B2%B0%E0%B2%A3%E0%B3%86%E0%B2%B2%E0%B3%81

Content: Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content.  Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.  However,    The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.  Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works  .
 Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content.  However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever.  Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC-BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or deceased recently.  The use of images of living or recently deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.   
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial or risk management), please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://roa-tara.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 
  è un'enciclopedia online a contenuto aperto, frutto del lavoro di un insieme di volontari, con lo scopo di sviluppare una fonte di conoscenza comune e libera.
Sebbene esistano   e un sistema non ufficiale di gestione anonimo e volontario, la struttura dell'enciclopedia permette a chiunque di modificare il contenuto delle sue pagine.
 È pertanto necessario tenere presente che:
 .
Ciò, naturalmente, non implica la mancanza di informazioni interessanti o accurate, ma è importante sapere che su Wikipedia ogni contenuto può essere modificato, alterato o   da chiunque.
Ciò significa che ogni dato o informazione presente nelle voci di Wikipedia potrebbe non rappresentare adeguatamente l'effettivo stato della conoscenza condivisa o la verità dei fatti.
Alcune edizioni linguistiche di Wikipedia hanno adottato  , ma sempre in forma volontaria e senza garanzia.
La cosa più vicina a questo sistema di selezione è l'attuale sezione « »; tuttavia anche le voci in essa presenti potrebbero essere state successivamente modificate senza il controllo necessario.
 
 Le informazioni riportate sono fornite in maniera libera e gratuita.
Nessun tipo di accordo o contratto sussiste — sia pure in forma implicita — tra l'utente e i proprietari del sito, gli utenti, i proprietari dei server, gli amministratori del progetto, gli amministratori di sistema o qualsiasi altra parte   a Wikipedia o ai progetti collaterali.
 Qualsiasi  , marchio di fabbrica, marchio collettivo, diritto di design, diritto d'immagine, di tutela dei propri dati personali o altri diritti simili, menzionati o utilizzati nelle voci di Wikipedia, è di proprietà dei legittimi detentori.
Tutto il materiale che si trova su Wikipedia è pubblicato dagli utenti (dei quali è conservato l'indirizzo IP a scopo cautelativo) secondo quanto previsto dalle   (CC BY-SA) e   (GFDL).
Wikipedia non può garantire che gli utenti abbiano effettivamente ottemperato a quanto richiesto da dette licenze e non abbiano, quindi, leso alcun diritto: la responsabilità della pubblicazione rimane perciò esclusivamente in capo agli utenti.
Laddove non diversamente dichiarato i siti di Wikipedia e Wikimedia non sono né associati a, né approvati da alcuno dei detentori di tali diritti.
  ed è espressamente vietato.
 È garantita una licenza limitata di copia dei contenuti (secondo le condizioni previste dalle licenze CC BY-SA e GFDL), ma ciò non crea né implica alcuna responsabilità contrattuale o extra-contrattuale da parte di Wikipedia o di uno qualsiasi dei suoi agenti, membri, organizzatori o altre parti.
 
 Le informazioni presenti potrebbero violare delle leggi del luogo di loro fruizione.
Wikipedia non incoraggia le violazioni di legge ma, siccome le informazioni sono conservate su server posti in  , negli  , si assumono a riferimento le disposizioni generali stabilite dal   della   e dalla   delle  .
Alcune legislazioni nazionali potrebbero non accordare una talmente ampia protezione della libertà di parola: Wikipedia non è responsabile per eventuali utilizzi dei propri contenuti considerati illeciti in tali Paesi.
 
 Leggere anche le avvertenze     e   per le liberatorie o per clausole specifiche di esclusione di responsabilità (disclaimer).
  in quanto essa è un'associazione volontaria di individui solo parzialmente strutturata e sviluppata liberamente per creare risorse educative, culturali e informative, online e aperte.
  e   circa il loro utilizzo o modifica, a parte il rispetto delle licenze CC BY-SA e GFDL; parimenti nessuno in Wikipedia è responsabile per il fatto che chicchessia cambi, modifichi o rimuova qualsiasi informazione che chiunque altro o egli medesimo possa aver inserito su Wikipedia o su uno qualsiasi dei suoi progetti associati.
 Il contenuto di questa pagina si applica a   presente in Wikipedia.
 Grazie per il tempo speso per la lettura di queste avvertenze generali, e auguri per una navigazione utile e piacevole su Wikipedia.


URL: https://ta.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%AE%B5%E0%AE%BF%E0%AE%95%E0%AF%8D%E0%AE%95%E0%AE%BF%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%8D%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%80%E0%AE%9F%E0%AE%BF%E0%AE%AF%E0%AE%BE:%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%8A%E0%AE%A4%E0%AF%81%E0%AE%B5%E0%AE%BE%E0%AE%A9_%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%8A%E0%AE%B1%E0%AF%81%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%8D%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%81%E0%AE%A4%E0%AF%8D_%E0%AE%A4%E0%AF%81%E0%AE%B1%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%8D%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%81%E0%AE%95%E0%AE%B3%E0%AF%8D

Content: 
  –   –   –   –  
 
வி  செ  எ  உ  ஏ 
 
  ஒரு இணைய திறந்த-உள்ளடக்க ஒருங்கிணைந்த கலைக்களஞ்சியம் ஆகும். அதாவது, தனிநபர்கள் மற்றும் குழுக்களின் ஒரு தன்னார்வ அமைப்பு, மனித அறிவின் ஒரு பொதுவான வள ஆதாரங்களை வளர்ப்பவர்கள் ஆகும். இந்த திட்டத்தின் கட்டமைப்பானது, இணைய இணைப்பு மற்றும் உலகளாவிய வலை உலாவி உடைய அனைவரும் அதன் உள்ளடக்கத்தை மாற்ற அனுமதிக்கிறது. இங்கே காணப்படும் எந்தத் தகவலும் முழுமையான, ​​துல்லியமான அல்லது நம்பகமான தகவல்களாக நீங்கள் பெறுவதற்க்கு தேவையான நிபுணர்களின் மறு ஆய்வுக்கு உட்படுத்தப்படவில்லை.
 அதாவது நீங்கள்   மதிப்புமிக்க மற்றும் துல்லியமான தகவல்களை காண முடியாது என்று சொல்வதற்க்கில்லை; பல நேரங்களில் உங்களால் அது முடியும். எனினும்,   எந்தவொரு கட்டுரையின் உள்ளடக்கமும் யாராலோ சமீபத்தில் மாற்றப்பட்டு, அழிக்கப்பட்டு அல்லது மாற்றியமைக்கப்பட்டிருக்கலாம்.
 நாம் கட்டுரைகளின் நம்பகமான பதிப்புகளின் தேர்வு மற்றும் முன்னிலைப்படுத்தும் வழிகளில் ஈடுபடுகின்றோம். நமது இயக்கத்தில் சமூக பதிப்பாசிரியர்கள்   மற்றும்   போன்ற ஓடைகளை, புதிய மற்றும் மாறும் உள்ளடக்கத்தை கண்காணிக்க பயன்படுத்துகின்றனர். எனினும்,   முறையான மறுபார்வை இல்லை; வாசகர்கள் பிழைகளை சரிசெய்யும் போதோ அல்லது சாதாரண மறுபார்வையில் ஈடுபடும் போதோ, அவர்கள் அவ்வாறு செய்வதற்கு எந்த சட்ட கடமை கிடையாது. இதனால் இங்கே படிக்கும் அனைத்து தகவல்களும் எவ்வித மறைமுக உறுதியான காப்புறுதிகளும் இல்லாமல் உள்ளது. இருப்பினும் கட்டுரைகள் என்றும் முறைசாரா மறுபார்வை மூலம் அல்லது   மூலம் மதிப்பிடப்படுகிறது. நீங்கள் அவற்றை பார்வையிடும் முன்பு பொருத்தமற்ற செயல்பாடுகள் பின்னர் திருத்தப்பட இருக்கலாம்.
 ஒப்பந்தம் இல்லை; வரையறுக்கப்பட்ட உரிமம்
இங்கே வழங்கப்பட்ட தகவல்கள் இலவசமாக வழங்கப்படுகின்றன என்பதை நீங்கள் புரிந்து கொள்ளுதல் வேண்டும், மற்றும் உங்களுக்கும், இந்த தளத்தின் உரிமையாளர்களுக்கோ அல்லது பயனர்களுக்கோ எந்தவித ஒப்பந்தமும் இல்லை, தனிப்பட்ட விக்கிபீடியா பங்களிப்பாளர்கள், எந்த திட்ட நிர்வாகிகள் அல்லது யாராவது நேரடியாக அவர்களுக்கு எதிராக உங்கள் கூற்றுக்கள் இந்த திட்டம் அல்லது சகோதர திட்டங்கள் தொடர்புடைய எந்த வழியில் யார் இந்த தளத்திலிருந்து எதையும் நகலெடுக்க உங்களுக்கு ஒரு வரையறுக்கப்பட்ட உரிமம் வழங்கப்பட்டுள்ளது; அது விக்கிப்பீடியா அல்லது அதன் முகவர்கள், உறுப்பினர்கள், அமைப்பாளர்கள் அல்லது பிற பயனர்களின் எந்தவொரு ஒப்பந்தம் அல்லது மிரட்டல் கடமைகளை உருவாக்கவோ அல்லது குறிக்கவோ இல்லை. Creative Commons Attributio Sharealike 3.0 Unported License (CC-BY-SA) க்கு அப்பால் இந்த தகவலைப் பயன்படுத்துவது அல்லது மாற்றியமைப்பதைப் பற்றியும், இந்த பக்கத்தை திறக்க வும் திருத்தவூம் முடியும் விக்கிபீடியா அல்லது அதன் தொடர்புடைய திட்டங்களில் நீங்கள் பதிவு செய்யக்கூடிய எந்தவொரு தகவலையும் மாற்ற, திருத்த, மாற்ற அல்லது நீக்க உரிமை உண்டு.
 விக்கிபீடியா கலைக்களஞ்சியத்தின் கட்டுரைகளில் பயன்படுத்தப்படும் அல்லது மேற்கோளிடப்பட்ட வர்த்தக சின்னங்கள், சேவை குறிகள், கூட்டு மதிப்பெண்கள், வடிவமைப்பு உரிமைகள் அல்லது இதே போன்ற உரிமைகள் அல்லது அவற்றின் உரிமையாளர்களின் சொத்து. CC-BY-SA மற்றும் GFDL உரிமம் வழங்கும் திட்டங்களின் கீழ் விக்கிபீடியா கட்டுரைகளின் அசல் எழுத்தாளர்களால் சிந்திக்கப்பட்ட அதே தகவலுக்கும் இதே போன்ற தகவலுக்கும் தவிர வேறு எந்த நோக்கத்திற்காகவும் நீங்கள் அவற்றைப் பயன்படுத்தக்கூடாது என்பதைக் குறிக்கவில்லை. விக்கிபீடியா மற்றும் விக்கிமீடியா தளங்கள் இல்லையெனில், எந்தவொரு உரிமையாளருக்கும் எந்தவொரு உரிமையாளருடனும் தொடர்புபடுத்தப்படாது அல்லது அத்தகைய விக்கிபீடியாவில் எந்தவொரு விதத்தில் பாதுகாக்கப்பட்ட பொருட்களையும் பயன்படுத்த முடியாது. அத்தகைய அல்லது இது போன்ற ஒற்றுமை சொத்து உங்கள் சொந்த ஆபத்தை பயன்படுத்துகிறது.
 விக்கிபீடியாவில் சமீபத்தில் உயிருடன் அல்லது இறந்த ஒரு அடையாளம் காணக்கூடிய நபரை சித்தரிக்கக்கூடிய பொருள் உள்ளது. உயிருள்ள அல்லது சமீபத்தில் இறந்த தனிநபர்களின் படங்களை பயன்படுத்துவது, சில அதிகார எல்லைகளில், அவர்களின் பதிப்புரிமை நிலையிலிருந்து சுயாதீனமான உரிமைகள் தொடர்பான சட்டங்களால் வரையறுக்கப்படுகிறது. இந்த வகையான உள்ளடக்கங்களைப் பயன்படுத்துவதற்கு முன்பு, உங்கள் நோக்கம் பயன்பாட்டின் சூழ்நிலைகளில் பொருந்தும் சட்டங்களின் கீழ் அதைப் பயன்படுத்த உங்களுக்கு உரிமை உள்ளது என்பதை உறுதிப்படுத்துக. நீங்கள் வேறு ஒருவரின் தனிப்பட்ட உரிமைகளை மீறுவதாக இல்லை என்பதை உறுதிசெய்ய நீங்கள் பொறுப்பாக உள்ளீர்கள்
 விக்கிப்பீடியாவில் காணப்படும் தகவல்கள் உங்களுடைய நாட்டின் சட்ட விதிகளை மீறி இருக்கலாம் அல்லது இந்த தகவலை காண்பது உங்கள் நாட்டில் தடை செய்யப்பட்டிருக்கலாம்.  விக்கிபீடியா தரவுத்தளம் அமெரிக்காவில் புளோரிடா மாநிலத்தில் உள்ள ஒரு சேவையகத்தில் சேமிக்கப்படுகிறது. மேலும் அமெரிக்க மாநில மற்றும் கூட்டாட்சி சட்டங்களுக்கு உட்பட்டது. விக்கிப்பீடியாவில் கருத்துகள் தெரிவிப்பது விக்கிப்பீடியா உள்ளடக்கத்தை விநியோகம் செய்வது போன்ற செயல்களுக்கு உங்களுடைய நாட்டின் சட்ட விதிகளின் படி அனுமதி இல்லாமல் இருக்கலாம். இத்தகைய சட்டங்கள் உங்கள் நாட்டில் இருந்தால் அச்சட்டமீறல்களைச் செய்ய விக்கிப்பீடியா உங்களை ஊக்குவிக்கவில்லை, இது போன்ற எந்த விதமான சட்ட மீறல்களுக்கும் விக்கிப்பீடியா பொறுப்பு ஆகாது. இந்த இணையதளத்தை இணைக்க அல்லது பயன்படுத்த, பிரதி உண்டாக்க, அல்லது இங்கு உள்ள தகவல் மறுவெளியீடு செய்ய இந்த தகவலையும் சேர்த்து வெளியிட வேண்டும்.
 உங்களுக்கு குறிப்பிட்ட துறையில் ஆலோசனை தேவைப்பட்டால் (எடுத்துக்காட்டாக மருத்துவம், சட்டம், நிதி, அல்லது இடர் மேலாண்மை) அந்தத் துறையில் அனுபவமுள்ள அல்லது அந்த துறையில் சிறந்தவரின் உதவியை நாடவும்.
 மேலும் பார்க்க:  


URL: https://fi.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Vastuuvapaus

Content: Wikipedia on vapaasti muokattavissa oleva tietosanakirja. Kuka tahansa, jolla on Internet-yhteys, voi muokata Wikipedian artikkeleja.
 Wikipediasta löytyy paljon arvokasta ja totuudenmukaista tietoa, mutta   Vaikka virheellisiä tietoja pyritään korjaamaan Wikipediassa, kenelläkään ei ole velvollisuutta korjata niitä, ja tästä syystä kaikki Wikipediasta löytyvä tieto toimitetaan lukijalle ilman takuuta oikeellisuudesta tai sopivuudesta mihinkään käyttötarkoitukseen.
 Wikipediassa oleva tieto tarjotaan käyttäjille ilmaiseksi ja ilman velvoitetta; tämän sivuston käyttö ei luo käyttäjän, Wikipedian tai kenenkään Wikipediaan liittyvän henkilön välille sopimus- tai vastuusuhdetta. Kenellä tahansa on rajattu oikeus käyttää ja kopioida materiaalia Wikipediasta, mutta tämä käyttöoikeus ei muodosta tai implikoi minkäänlaista sopimuksellista tai muunkaltaista korvausvastuuta.
 Wikipedia saattaa sisältää muiden osapuolien tavaramerkkejä tai muita lailla suojattuja immateriaalisia hyödykkeitä. Ne kuuluvat omistajilleen eikä niiden käyttö Wikipediassa anna kenellekään oikeutta käyttää niitä muussa yhteydessä. Jos toisin ei mainita, Wikipedialla ei ole tosiasiallista suhdetta tavaramerkkeihin tai niiden omistajiin eikä Wikipedia siten voi myöntää kenellekään oikeutta käyttää kyseessä olevia tavaramerkkejä.
 Wikipediasta löytyvä tieto saattaa rikkoa lakia joissain valtioissa, joiden alueelta Wikipediaa luetaan. Wikipedia ei rohkaise tai yllytä rikkomaan paikallisia lakeja tai asetuksia, mutta koska Wikipedian tieto on fyysisesti talletettu  , Wikipedia nauttii tallennuspaikassaan Yhdysvaltain perustuslain ja   yleismaailmallisen ihmisoikeuksien julistuksen kaikille suomaa  . Kaikkien valtioiden lait eivät välttämättä takaa tätä vapautta, ja siksi Wikipedia ei voi olla vastuussa mahdollisista rikkomuksista, joita Wikipedian käyttäjä tekee lukiessaan Wikipediaa tai luodessaan hyperlinkkejä muista hyperdokumenteista Wikipediaan.
 
 


URL: https://sv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Allm%C3%A4nt_f%C3%B6rbeh%C3%A5ll

Content: Alla som har tillgång till internet kan skriva på Wikipedia och påverka dess innehåll. Detta är en av Wikipedias styrkor, men också en av dess svagheter. Inga garantier lämnas för korrektheten i innehållet. Tänk på att Wikipedias innehåll, som lagras på servrar i  , kan vara olagligt i det land där du bor.


URL: https://sv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Allm%C3%A4nt_f%C3%B6rbeh%C3%A5ll

Content: Alla som har tillgång till internet kan skriva på Wikipedia och påverka dess innehåll. Detta är en av Wikipedias styrkor, men också en av dess svagheter. Inga garantier lämnas för korrektheten i innehållet. Tänk på att Wikipedias innehåll, som lagras på servrar i  , kan vara olagligt i det land där du bor.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia_talk:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 The last sentence of "Jurisdiction and legality of content" uses the Oxford comma while the parenthetical in "Not professional advice" appears to omit it. This should be fixed if it's a mistake; if not, someone please tell me what the intended meaning of the parenthetical is.   ( ) 00:21, 21 October 2022 (UTC) 
 Added a link to   following some discussion over at meta-wiki. —     03:08, 12 November 2023 (UTC) 
 Please change   (in both places it appears) to   per   (page 11). Thanks!   (  · he/him) 19:58, 6 April 2024 (UTC) 


URL: https://vls.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Aansprakelekeid

Content: Ier stoan de zogenoamde   en ander juridische tekstn.
 De Wikipedia es een gemêenschapsproject dat gemakt wordt door e hêel verscheidn publiek.
Foutn wordn normoal geziene zêre gecorrigeerd ma mocht je toch ieverst 'n twuk zien da nie hêel juste es, meugt ge da alsan laatn weetn ip het  -blad die by het betreffnde artikel hôort.
 Ge meugt het ôok alsan zelve verandern in 't artikel.
 De vrywilligers die meewerkn an den encyclopedie ('t publiek, dus ôok gyzelve) aanveirdn   vo de justeid van d'artikels. De informatie die ier te vindn es, is hêlegans gratis en vry, moa wel te gebruukn ip eigen risico.
 Een oantal gebrukers (de zogenaamde  ) ein extra meuglikeedn ip technisch niveau. Zudder kunn bloadn beveiligen, wegdoene en de schryfrechtn van gebrukers anpassen, meuglikeedn die geweune gebrukers nie ein.
Deze groep vrywilligers zyn niet de eigenoars of webmasters van Wikipedia, 't zyn êerder de gastn die instaan vo het ounderoud.
 Ip juridisch vlak ein gebrukers (anonieme, geweune en sysops) gin aansprakelikeid, allêne de eigenoare van Wikipedia, de  , es de eindverantwoordelikke. 
 Mocht er een probleem zyn, pakt dan êest contact ip met vls.wikipedia (byvôorbeeld êen van de sysops). 
Ge kunt ôok e klacht verzenden, in 't Iengels, noa:
 Olle tekst, ofbeeldingn en andere media volt ounder de  -licentie.
 Zie  .


URL: https://tl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Pangkalahatang_pagtatanggi

Content: Mangyari ring basahin ang mga sumusunod:
 
 HINDI GINAGARANTIYA NG WIKIPEDIA NA ANG IMPORMASYONG NAKALAGAY SA MGA NILALAMAN NITO AY KUMPLETO, TAMA, MAAASAHAN AT MAPAGKAKATIWALAAN.
 Ang Wikipedia ay isa pong malaya at bukas na ensiklopedyang sama-samang pinagtutulungan ng mga boluntaryong indibidwal at grupo sa mithiing makagawa ng isang pangkalahatang pinagkukunan ng impormasyon. Dahil sa anyo ng proyektong ito, maaari pong baguhin ng kahit sinumang nakakonekta sa Internet ang kahit ano sa mga nilalaman nito. Mangyari pong dapat niyong malaman na hindi po dumaan sa hanay ng mga eksperto ng larangang kinabibilangan ng isang partikular na artikulo ang impormasyong nakalagay. Sa madaling salita po, hindi po masasabing kumpleto, tama, maasahan o mapagkakatiwalaan ang kahit anong impormasyon na nakalagay rito.
 Gayunpaman, hindi ibig sabihin nito ay hindi ka na makakahanap ng mahalaga at tamang impormasyon rito sa Wikipedia. Sa totoo lang, madalas kang makakakita ng tamang impormasyon rito.
 Subalit, pakatandaan lamang po na   Maaari agad mabago ang nilalaman ng kahit sino upang babuyin o di kaya'y dahil sa sumasalungat ng opinyon niya sa napagkasunduan ng nakakarami sa partikular na larangang iyon. 
 Mangyari rin pong dapat niyong malaman na may kaparehong mga pagtatanggi rin ang ibang mga ensiklopedya at pinagkukunan ng impormasyon.
 Ginagamit ng aming aktibong komunidad ng mga tagapatnugot ( ) ang mga kagamitang tulad ng   at   para bantayan ang mga pumapasok na bago at binagong mga nilalaman. Gayunpaman, hindi pantay na nasusuri ng nakakarami ang kabuuan ng Wikipedia - pwedeng itama ng mga mambabasa ang mga kamalian o di kaya'y sumali sa mga pagsusuring ginagawa, pero wala silang tungkuling ligal na gawin iyon at dahil sa kadahilanang iyon, walang katiyakan at garantiya na maaaring magamit ang kahit anong impormasyong nakalagay rito para sa kahit anong paggamit o kung anuman. Maaari ring mabago ang mga artikulong nasuri na nang impormal o di kaya'y itinampok na ( ), bago mo pa mang makita't mabasa iyon.
 
 Siguraduhing naiintindihan mo na binibigay ang impormasyong nilalagay rito nang libre, at walang kasunduan o kontratang ginawa sa pagitan mo at ng mga may-ari at tagagamit ng sayt na ito, ang mga may-ari ng mga   kung saan ito nakalagay, mga indibidwal na nag-ambag sa Wikipedia, kahit sino sa mga tagapangasiwa ng mga proyekto, mga   (mga tagapangasiwa ng isang sistemang may maraming tagagamit), o sa kahit sinumang konektado sa proyektong ito sa mga kakambal nitong mga proyekto   na mapapailalim sa mga paghahabol mo sa kanila nang direkta. Binibigyan ka ng isang limitadong lisensiya sa pagkopya ng kahit anong nasa sayt; hindi ito gumagawa o nagsasabing may pananagutang kontraktwal o ekstrakontraktwal ang Wikipedia o kahit sino sa mga ahente, miyembro, tagapag-ayos, o sa iba pang mga tagagamit nito.
  tungkol sa paggamit mo o sa pagbago sa impormasyong ito na lagpas sa saklaw ng lisensiyang   (walang hurisdiksyon, hal. bansa) na   (CC-BY-SA) at ang lisensiyang   (GFDL), at wala ring responsibilidad ang kahit sinuman sa Wikipedia sa pagbago mo, pagmodipika, o pagtanggal ng impormasyong ipinaskil ( ) mo sa Wikipedia o sa kahit alin sa mga kaugnay nitong proyekto.
 Pagmamay-ari ng nagmamay-ari sa kanila ang kahit anong mga tatak ( ), tatak ng serbisyo ( ), tatak ng 7 9809-[9-0m==ng paggamit ng impormasyon tulad ng naisip ng mga may-akda ng mga artikulong ito sa Wikipedia na nasa ilalim ng mga lisensiyang CC-BY-SA at GFDL. Maliban lamang kung nakasaad, hindi ineendorso ni kasapi ang Wikipedia at Wikimedia sa mga may-ari ng n =f[v0d0=x0 ]8 -q]-9w-9s-09 
 Naglalaman ang Wikipedia ng mga materyales na maaaring makatukoy ng isang buhay o kamamatay lang na tao. Nililimitahan ng mga batas na may kaugnayan sa karapatan sa pagkatao ng ilang hurisdiksyon ang paggamit sa mga larawan ng buhay o kamamatay lang na tao, at iba pa ito sa estado ng karapatan sa pagmamay-ari ng mga ito. Siguraduhing may karapatan kang gamitin ang mga iyon sa ilalim ng mga batas na malalapat sa kalagayan ng panggagamitan mo.  
 Maaaring labag sa batas ng bansa kung saan mo nababasa ang impormasyong nakalagay rito ang paglathala ng impormasyong nasa Wikipedia. Nakatago ang lahat ng impormasyon ng Wikipedia sa mga   nito sa Estados Unidos, at patuloy na pinangangalagaan ito sa ilalim ng proteksyon ng mga lokal at pederal na batas. Maaaring hindi protektado o pinapayagan ng mga batas ng iyong bansa o hurisdiksyon ang kaparehong antas ng pagsalita at/o paglimbag. Hindi hinihimok ng Wikipedia ang paglabag sa kahit anong mga batas, at hindi rin responsable ito para sa mga paglabag sa batas na iyon, kung sakali mang nagkawing ( ) ka sa dominyong ( ) ito o maging ang paggamit, pagkopya, o paglimbag muli ng mga impormasyong nakalagay rito.
 Kung nangangailangan ka ng tiyak na payo (tulad ng medikal, ligal, pinansiyal, o pamamahala sa peligro), mangyaring humingi ng payo sa isang propesyonal na lisensiyado o may alam sa naturang larangan.


URL: https://war.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 
  -   -   -   -  
 WARAY GINHAHATAG NGA GARANTIYA HAN WIKIPEDIA HIN PAGKAHINGPIT HAN SULOD DINHE.
 An   usa nga onlayn nga buklad-hin-sulod nga ensayklopediya, nga buot sidngon, usa nga boluntaryo nga pagkatitirok hin mga tawo ngan grupo nga naghihimo hin kuruhaan hin hibaro hin katawhan para ha ngatanan.  An kahimo hini natugot hin bisan hin-o nga konektado ha Internet ngan mayda World Wide Web nga pandalikyat nga magliwat han sulod nga mabibilngan dinhe.  Amo nga alayon pagpasagdon nga waray butang nga mabibilngan dinhe nga masisiring nga ginsubay hin mga propesyonal nga maaram han ispisipiko nga larangan hin kahibaro nga kinahanglan nga matagan ka hin hingpit, sakto o kundi man matataporan nga impormasyon hin bisan ano nga iristoryahon ha  
  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  . 


URL: https://su.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Bantahan_umum

Content:  nyaéta énsiklopédi nemrak ( ) online, anu hartina mangrupa hiji gempungan sukaréla nu ngembangkeun hiji sumberdaya umum pangaweruh. Strukturna dijieun  sangkan bisa dipaké ku saha baé nu miboga sambungan Internét sarta     pikeun ngarobah eusi nu kapanggih di dieu. ku sabab kitu, perlu dipikanyaho yén nu aya di dieu merlukeun ulasan para profésional husus nu mémang kaweruhna dipikabutuh pikeun nyadiakeun informasi ngeunaan naon baé dina   kalawan lengkep, akurat, sarta bisa dipercaya.
 Éta hal téh teu ngandung harti yén Anjeun moal manggih informasi nu boga ajén sarta akurat dina  , tapi ogé, mugia kauninga yén   Eusina bisa cikénéh pisan robah, diruksak, atawa diganggu ku jalma séjén nu pamanggihna teu saluyu jeung jihat pangaweruh dina widang husus nu kabeneran keur dipaluruh ku Anjeun. Urang keur ngusahakeun cara pikeun milih sarta nyatujuan vérsi artikel nu bisa leuwih dipercaya, tapi tetep tanpa jaminan. Nu pangdeukeutna tina usaha ieu nyaéta ku ayana prosés  , tapi artikel nu éta gé bisa waé  robah pas pisan méméh anjeun muka.
 Anjeun geus dianggap ngarti yén sagala informasi nu aya di dieu téh disadiakeun kalawan bébas tur haratis, sarta teu aya perjangjian atawa kontrak naon ogé anu dijieun antara Anjeun jeung pamilik atawa pamaké situs ieu, pamilik server tempatna disimpen, pribadi kontributor  , administrator proyék mana baé,   atawa singsaha baé nu   jeung proyék ieu atawa subyék proyék   kana klaim Anjeun ka maranéhna sacara langsung. Anjeun dibéré ijin nu diwates pikeun nyalin sagala rupa nu aya dina ieu situs. Éta hal teu matak nyieun atawa nyababkeun kontrak naon baé atawa kontrak tambahan pikeun Wikipedia atawa agén, anggota, pangurus, atawa pamaké séjénna.    
 Mérk dagang, mérk layanan, mérks koléktif, hak desain, hak pribadi atawa hak sarupa anu disebutkeun, anu dipaké atawa dikutip dina artikel tina Wikipédia nyaéta milik masing-masing nu bogana. Dipakéna dina Wikipédia lain harti Anjeun bisa make pikeun tujuan lain salian pikeun eusi anu sarua atawa mirip dijieun ku panulis asli tia artikel Wikipedia ieu di handapeun lisénsi GDFL. Iwal situs Wikipedia jeung Wikimedia nyebutkeun lain deui, anu teu dirojong atawa boga hubungan jeung salah sahiji nu nyepeng éta hak, sarta Wikipédia teu bisa mere hak pikeun make bahan-bahan lain anu dilindung.  .
 Kudu dicatet yén informasi anu kapanggih di dieu mungkin baé ngalanggar hukum nagara atawa yurisdiksi ti tempat Anjeun ningali informasi ieu.   teu ngadorong pikeun ngalanggar hukum naon baé, tapi lantara ieu informasi disimpen di nagara bagian   di  , mangka sagala rupa eusina aya dina referénsi panyalindungan   di handapeun prinsip-prinsip Deklarasi Universal Hak Asasi Manusia ti  . Undang-undang di nagara Anjeun mungkin teu mikawanoh sacara lega panyalindung kabébasan nyarita minangka undang-undang Amérika Serikat atawa prinsip-prinsip Piagem PBB, sarta ku kituna   teu bisa tanggung jawab kana poténsi pelanggaran hukum samodél kitu kudu ditumbukeun kana domain ieu atawa  maké informasi anu dikandung dina ieu kaca.
 Wikipedia téh teu saragem dina prosés ngulas artikelna sacara babarengan, bisa waé hiji artikel aya anu ngoréksi kasalahan atawa ngahapus saran anu salah. Maranéhna teu boga kawajiban hukum pikeun ngalakukeun éta hal, nu matak sakabéh informasi anu dibaca di dieu teu dibarengan ku jaminan kaluyuan pikeun tujuan naoan waé atawa maké naon waé.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the  ; neither is anyone at   responsible should soméone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Hatur nuhun parantos ngaluangkeun waktosna kanggo maos kaca ieu, mangga dihaturanan kanggo ngaraoskeun pangalaman di  . 


URL: https://fi.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Vastuuvapaus

Content: Wikipedia on vapaasti muokattavissa oleva tietosanakirja. Kuka tahansa, jolla on Internet-yhteys, voi muokata Wikipedian artikkeleja.
 Wikipediasta löytyy paljon arvokasta ja totuudenmukaista tietoa, mutta   Vaikka virheellisiä tietoja pyritään korjaamaan Wikipediassa, kenelläkään ei ole velvollisuutta korjata niitä, ja tästä syystä kaikki Wikipediasta löytyvä tieto toimitetaan lukijalle ilman takuuta oikeellisuudesta tai sopivuudesta mihinkään käyttötarkoitukseen.
 Wikipediassa oleva tieto tarjotaan käyttäjille ilmaiseksi ja ilman velvoitetta; tämän sivuston käyttö ei luo käyttäjän, Wikipedian tai kenenkään Wikipediaan liittyvän henkilön välille sopimus- tai vastuusuhdetta. Kenellä tahansa on rajattu oikeus käyttää ja kopioida materiaalia Wikipediasta, mutta tämä käyttöoikeus ei muodosta tai implikoi minkäänlaista sopimuksellista tai muunkaltaista korvausvastuuta.
 Wikipedia saattaa sisältää muiden osapuolien tavaramerkkejä tai muita lailla suojattuja immateriaalisia hyödykkeitä. Ne kuuluvat omistajilleen eikä niiden käyttö Wikipediassa anna kenellekään oikeutta käyttää niitä muussa yhteydessä. Jos toisin ei mainita, Wikipedialla ei ole tosiasiallista suhdetta tavaramerkkeihin tai niiden omistajiin eikä Wikipedia siten voi myöntää kenellekään oikeutta käyttää kyseessä olevia tavaramerkkejä.
 Wikipediasta löytyvä tieto saattaa rikkoa lakia joissain valtioissa, joiden alueelta Wikipediaa luetaan. Wikipedia ei rohkaise tai yllytä rikkomaan paikallisia lakeja tai asetuksia, mutta koska Wikipedian tieto on fyysisesti talletettu  , Wikipedia nauttii tallennuspaikassaan Yhdysvaltain perustuslain ja   yleismaailmallisen ihmisoikeuksien julistuksen kaikille suomaa  . Kaikkien valtioiden lait eivät välttämättä takaa tätä vapautta, ja siksi Wikipedia ei voi olla vastuussa mahdollisista rikkomuksista, joita Wikipedian käyttäjä tekee lukiessaan Wikipediaa tai luodessaan hyperlinkkejä muista hyperdokumenteista Wikipediaan.
 
 


URL: https://su.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Bantahan_umum

Content:  nyaéta énsiklopédi nemrak ( ) online, anu hartina mangrupa hiji gempungan sukaréla nu ngembangkeun hiji sumberdaya umum pangaweruh. Strukturna dijieun  sangkan bisa dipaké ku saha baé nu miboga sambungan Internét sarta     pikeun ngarobah eusi nu kapanggih di dieu. ku sabab kitu, perlu dipikanyaho yén nu aya di dieu merlukeun ulasan para profésional husus nu mémang kaweruhna dipikabutuh pikeun nyadiakeun informasi ngeunaan naon baé dina   kalawan lengkep, akurat, sarta bisa dipercaya.
 Éta hal téh teu ngandung harti yén Anjeun moal manggih informasi nu boga ajén sarta akurat dina  , tapi ogé, mugia kauninga yén   Eusina bisa cikénéh pisan robah, diruksak, atawa diganggu ku jalma séjén nu pamanggihna teu saluyu jeung jihat pangaweruh dina widang husus nu kabeneran keur dipaluruh ku Anjeun. Urang keur ngusahakeun cara pikeun milih sarta nyatujuan vérsi artikel nu bisa leuwih dipercaya, tapi tetep tanpa jaminan. Nu pangdeukeutna tina usaha ieu nyaéta ku ayana prosés  , tapi artikel nu éta gé bisa waé  robah pas pisan méméh anjeun muka.
 Anjeun geus dianggap ngarti yén sagala informasi nu aya di dieu téh disadiakeun kalawan bébas tur haratis, sarta teu aya perjangjian atawa kontrak naon ogé anu dijieun antara Anjeun jeung pamilik atawa pamaké situs ieu, pamilik server tempatna disimpen, pribadi kontributor  , administrator proyék mana baé,   atawa singsaha baé nu   jeung proyék ieu atawa subyék proyék   kana klaim Anjeun ka maranéhna sacara langsung. Anjeun dibéré ijin nu diwates pikeun nyalin sagala rupa nu aya dina ieu situs. Éta hal teu matak nyieun atawa nyababkeun kontrak naon baé atawa kontrak tambahan pikeun Wikipedia atawa agén, anggota, pangurus, atawa pamaké séjénna.    
 Mérk dagang, mérk layanan, mérks koléktif, hak desain, hak pribadi atawa hak sarupa anu disebutkeun, anu dipaké atawa dikutip dina artikel tina Wikipédia nyaéta milik masing-masing nu bogana. Dipakéna dina Wikipédia lain harti Anjeun bisa make pikeun tujuan lain salian pikeun eusi anu sarua atawa mirip dijieun ku panulis asli tia artikel Wikipedia ieu di handapeun lisénsi GDFL. Iwal situs Wikipedia jeung Wikimedia nyebutkeun lain deui, anu teu dirojong atawa boga hubungan jeung salah sahiji nu nyepeng éta hak, sarta Wikipédia teu bisa mere hak pikeun make bahan-bahan lain anu dilindung.  .
 Kudu dicatet yén informasi anu kapanggih di dieu mungkin baé ngalanggar hukum nagara atawa yurisdiksi ti tempat Anjeun ningali informasi ieu.   teu ngadorong pikeun ngalanggar hukum naon baé, tapi lantara ieu informasi disimpen di nagara bagian   di  , mangka sagala rupa eusina aya dina referénsi panyalindungan   di handapeun prinsip-prinsip Deklarasi Universal Hak Asasi Manusia ti  . Undang-undang di nagara Anjeun mungkin teu mikawanoh sacara lega panyalindung kabébasan nyarita minangka undang-undang Amérika Serikat atawa prinsip-prinsip Piagem PBB, sarta ku kituna   teu bisa tanggung jawab kana poténsi pelanggaran hukum samodél kitu kudu ditumbukeun kana domain ieu atawa  maké informasi anu dikandung dina ieu kaca.
 Wikipedia téh teu saragem dina prosés ngulas artikelna sacara babarengan, bisa waé hiji artikel aya anu ngoréksi kasalahan atawa ngahapus saran anu salah. Maranéhna teu boga kawajiban hukum pikeun ngalakukeun éta hal, nu matak sakabéh informasi anu dibaca di dieu teu dibarengan ku jaminan kaluyuan pikeun tujuan naoan waé atawa maké naon waé.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the  ; neither is anyone at   responsible should soméone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Hatur nuhun parantos ngaluangkeun waktosna kanggo maos kaca ieu, mangga dihaturanan kanggo ngaraoskeun pangalaman di  . 


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Text_of_the_GNU_Free_Documentation_License

Content: 
 Version 1.3, 3 November 2008
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2002, 2007, 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc. < >
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.
 The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other functional and useful document "free" in the sense of freedom: to assure everyone the effective freedom to copy and redistribute it, with or without modifying it, either commercially or noncommercially. Secondarily, this License preserves for the author and publisher a way to get credit for their work, while not being considered responsible for modifications made by others.
 This License is a kind of "copyleft", which means that derivative works of the document must themselves be free in the same sense. It complements the GNU General Public License, which is a copyleft license designed for free software.
 We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for free software, because free software needs free documentation: a free program should come with manuals providing the same freedoms that the software does. But this License is not limited to software manuals; it can be used for any textual work, regardless of subject matter or whether it is published as a printed book. We recommend this License principally for works whose purpose is instruction or reference.
 This License applies to any manual or other work, in any medium, that contains a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it can be distributed under the terms of this License. Such a notice grants a world-wide, royalty-free license, unlimited in duration, to use that work under the conditions stated herein. The "Document", below, refers to any such manual or work. Any member of the public is a licensee, and is addressed as "you". You accept the license if you copy, modify or distribute the work in a way requiring permission under copyright law.
 A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the Document or a portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with modifications and/or translated into another language.
 A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front-matter section of the Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the publishers or authors of the Document to the Document's overall subject (or to related matters) and contains nothing that could fall directly within that overall subject. (Thus, if the Document is in part a textbook of mathematics, a Secondary Section may not explain any mathematics.) The relationship could be a matter of historical connection with the subject or with related matters, or of legal, commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position regarding them.
 The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose titles are designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the notice that says that the Document is released under this License. If a section does not fit the above definition of Secondary then it is not allowed to be designated as Invariant. The Document may contain zero Invariant Sections. If the Document does not identify any Invariant Sections then there are none.
 The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are listed, as Front-Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice that says that the Document is released under this License. A Front-Cover Text may be at most 5 words, and a Back-Cover Text may be at most 25 words.
 A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy, represented in a format whose specification is available to the general public, that is suitable for revising the document straightforwardly with generic text editors or (for images composed of pixels) generic paint programs or (for drawings) some widely available drawing editor, and that is suitable for input to text formatters or for automatic translation to a variety of formats suitable for input to text formatters. A copy made in an otherwise Transparent file format whose markup, or absence of markup, has been arranged to thwart or discourage subsequent modification by readers is not Transparent. An image format is not Transparent if used for any substantial amount of text. A copy that is not "Transparent" is called "Opaque".
 Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain ASCII without markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format, SGML or XML using a publicly available DTD, and standard-conforming simple HTML, PostScript or PDF designed for human modification. Examples of transparent image formats include PNG, XCF and JPG. Opaque formats include proprietary formats that can be read and edited only by proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for which the DTD and/or processing tools are not generally available, and the machine-generated HTML, PostScript or PDF produced by some word processors for output purposes only.
 The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself, plus such following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the material this License requires to appear in the title page. For works in formats which do not have any title page as such, "Title Page" means the text near the most prominent appearance of the work's title, preceding the beginning of the body of the text.
 The "publisher" means any person or entity that distributes copies of the Document to the public.
 A section "Entitled XYZ" means a named subunit of the Document whose title either is precisely XYZ or contains XYZ in parentheses following text that translates XYZ in another language. (Here XYZ stands for a specific section name mentioned below, such as "Acknowledgements", "Dedications", "Endorsements", or "History".) To "Preserve the Title" of such a section when you modify the Document means that it remains a section "Entitled XYZ" according to this definition.
 The Document may include Warranty Disclaimers next to the notice which states that this License applies to the Document. These Warranty Disclaimers are considered to be included by reference in this License, but only as regards disclaiming warranties: any other implication that these Warranty Disclaimers may have is void and has no effect on the meaning of this License.
 You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either commercially or noncommercially, provided that this License, the copyright notices, and the license notice saying this License applies to the Document are reproduced in all copies, and that you add no other conditions whatsoever to those of this License. You may not use technical measures to obstruct or control the reading or further copying of the copies you make or distribute. However, you may accept compensation in exchange for copies. If you distribute a large enough number of copies you must also follow the conditions in section 3.
 You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above, and you may publicly display copies.
 If you publish printed copies (or copies in media that commonly have printed covers) of the Document, numbering more than 100, and the Document's license notice requires Cover Texts, you must enclose the copies in covers that carry, clearly and legibly, all these Cover Texts: Front-Cover Texts on the front cover, and Back-Cover Texts on the back cover. Both covers must also clearly and legibly identify you as the publisher of these copies. The front cover must present the full title with all words of the title equally prominent and visible. You may add other material on the covers in addition. Copying with changes limited to the covers, as long as they preserve the title of the Document and satisfy these conditions, can be treated as verbatim copying in other respects.
 If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit legibly, you should put the first ones listed (as many as fit reasonably) on the actual cover, and continue the rest onto adjacent pages.
 If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document numbering more than 100, you must either include a machine-readable Transparent copy along with each Opaque copy, or state in or with each Opaque copy a computer-network location from which the general network-using public has access to download using public-standard network protocols a complete Transparent copy of the Document, free of added material. If you use the latter option, you must take reasonably prudent steps, when you begin distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure that this Transparent copy will remain thus accessible at the stated location until at least one year after the last time you distribute an Opaque copy (directly or through your agents or retailers) of that edition to the public.
 It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of the Document well before redistributing any large number of copies, to give them a chance to provide you with an updated version of the Document.
 You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document under the conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you release the Modified Version under precisely this License, with the Modified Version filling the role of the Document, thus licensing distribution and modification of the Modified Version to whoever possesses a copy of it. In addition, you must do these things in the Modified Version:
 If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or appendices that qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material copied from the Document, you may at your option designate some or all of these sections as invariant. To do this, add their titles to the list of Invariant Sections in the Modified Version's license notice. These titles must be distinct from any other section titles.
 You may add a section Entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains nothing but endorsements of your Modified Version by various parties—for example, statements of peer review or that the text has been approved by an organization as the authoritative definition of a standard.
 You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text, and a passage of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of the list of Cover Texts in the Modified Version. Only one passage of Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover Text may be added by (or through arrangements made by) any one entity. If the Document already includes a cover text for the same cover, previously added by you or by arrangement made by the same entity you are acting on behalf of, you may not add another; but you may replace the old one, on explicit permission from the previous publisher that added the old one.
 The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License give permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or imply endorsement of any Modified Version.
 You may combine the Document with other documents released under this License, under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified versions, provided that you include in the combination all of the Invariant Sections of all of the original documents, unmodified, and list them all as Invariant Sections of your combined work in its license notice, and that you preserve all their Warranty Disclaimers.
 The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and multiple identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single copy. If there are multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but different contents, make the title of each such section unique by adding at the end of it, in parentheses, the name of the original author or publisher of that section if known, or else a unique number. Make the same adjustment to the section titles in the list of Invariant Sections in the license notice of the combined work.
 In the combination, you must combine any sections Entitled "History" in the various original documents, forming one section Entitled "History"; likewise combine any sections Entitled "Acknowledgements", and any sections Entitled "Dedications". You must delete all sections Entitled "Endorsements".
 You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other documents released under this License, and replace the individual copies of this License in the various documents with a single copy that is included in the collection, provided that you follow the rules of this License for verbatim copying of each of the documents in all other respects.
 You may extract a single document from such a collection, and distribute it individually under this License, provided you insert a copy of this License into the extracted document, and follow this License in all other respects regarding verbatim copying of that document.
 A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate and independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or distribution medium, is called an "aggregate" if the copyright resulting from the compilation is not used to limit the legal rights of the compilation's users beyond what the individual works permit. When the Document is included in an aggregate, this License does not apply to the other works in the aggregate which are not themselves derivative works of the Document.
 If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these copies of the Document, then if the Document is less than one half of the entire aggregate, the Document's Cover Texts may be placed on covers that bracket the Document within the aggregate, or the electronic equivalent of covers if the Document is in electronic form. Otherwise they must appear on printed covers that bracket the whole aggregate.
 Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may distribute translations of the Document under the terms of section 4. Replacing Invariant Sections with translations requires special permission from their copyright holders, but you may include translations of some or all Invariant Sections in addition to the original versions of these Invariant Sections. You may include a translation of this License, and all the license notices in the Document, and any Warranty Disclaimers, provided that you also include the original English version of this License and the original versions of those notices and disclaimers. In case of a disagreement between the translation and the original version of this License or a notice or disclaimer, the original version will prevail.
 If a section in the Document is Entitled "Acknowledgements", "Dedications", or "History", the requirement (section 4) to Preserve its Title (section 1) will typically require changing the actual title.
 You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute it is void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.
 However, if you cease all violation of this License, then your license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated (a) provisionally, unless and until the copyright holder explicitly and finally terminates your license, and (b) permanently, if the copyright holder fails to notify you of the violation by some reasonable means prior to 60 days after the cessation.
 Moreover, your license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated permanently if the copyright holder notifies you of the violation by some reasonable means, this is the first time you have received notice of violation of this License (for any work) from that copyright holder, and you cure the violation prior to 30 days after your receipt of the notice.
 Termination of your rights under this section does not terminate the licenses of parties who have received copies or rights from you under this License. If your rights have been terminated and not permanently reinstated, receipt of a copy of some or all of the same material does not give you any rights to use it.
 The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions of the GNU Free Documentation License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns. See  .
 Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version number. If the Document specifies that a particular numbered version of this License "or any later version" applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that specified version or of any later version that has been published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation. If the Document does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose any version ever published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation. If the Document specifies that a proxy can decide which future versions of this License can be used, that proxy's public statement of acceptance of a version permanently authorizes you to choose that version for the Document.
 "Massive Multiauthor Collaboration Site" (or "MMC Site") means any World Wide Web server that publishes copyrightable works and also provides prominent facilities for anybody to edit those works. A public wiki that anybody can edit is an example of such a server. A "Massive Multiauthor Collaboration" (or "MMC") contained in the site means any set of copyrightable works thus published on the MMC site.
 "CC-BY-SA" means the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 license published by Creative Commons Corporation, a not-for-profit corporation with a principal place of business in San Francisco, California, as well as future copyleft versions of that license published by that same organization.
 "Incorporate" means to publish or republish a Document, in whole or in part, as part of another Document.
 An MMC is "eligible for relicensing" if it is licensed under this License, and if all works that were first published under this License somewhere other than this MMC, and subsequently incorporated in whole or in part into the MMC, (1) had no cover texts or invariant sections, and (2) were thus incorporated prior to November 1, 2008.
 The operator of an MMC Site may republish an MMC contained in the site under CC-BY-SA on the same site at any time before August 1, 2009, provided the MMC is eligible for relicensing.
 To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of the License in the document and put the following copyright and license notices just after the title page:
 If you have Invariant Sections, Front-Cover Texts and Back-Cover Texts, replace the "with...Texts." line with this:
 If you have Invariant Sections without Cover Texts, or some other combination of the three, merge those two alternatives to suit the situation.
 If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we recommend releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of free software license, such as the GNU General Public License, to permit their use in free software.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personality_rights

Content: , sometimes referred to as the  , are rights for an individual to control the commercial use of their identity, such as name, image, likeness, or other unequivocal identifiers. They are generally considered as  , rather than  , and so the validity of personality rights of publicity may survive the death of the individual to varying degrees, depending on the jurisdiction.
 Personality rights are generally considered to consist of two types of rights: the right of publicity,  or the right to keep one's image and likeness from being commercially exploited without permission or contractual compensation, which is similar (but not identical) to the use of a  ; and the  , or the right to be left alone and not have one's personality represented publicly without permission. In   jurisdictions,   fall into the realm of the   of  . United States   has substantially extended this right.
 A commonly cited justification for this doctrine, from a policy standpoint, is the notion of   and the idea that every individual should have a right to control how their right of publicity is commercialized by a third party, if at all.  Often, though certainly not always, the motivation to engage in such commercialization is to help propel sales or visibility for a product or service, which usually amounts to some form of   (which in turn receives the  ).
 In contrast with   jurisdictions, most   jurisdictions have specific civil code provisions that protect an individual's image, personal data and other generally private information.  Exceptions have been carved out of these general, broad privacy rights when dealing with news and public figures. Thus, while it may violate an ordinary citizen's privacy to speak about their medical records, one is generally allowed to report on more intimate details in the lives of celebrities and politicians.
 Unlike most common law jurisdictions the personality rights in civil law are generally inheritable, thus one can make a claim against someone who invades the privacy of a deceased relative if the memory of their character is besmirched by such publication.
 Personality rights have developed out of   concepts of  ,   and intentional  .  Thus personality rights are, generally speaking, judge-made law, though there are   where some aspects of personality rights are statutory. In some jurisdictions, publicity rights and privacy rights are not clearly distinguished, and the term publicity right is generally used. In a publicity rights case the issue to decide is whether a significant section of the public would be misled into believing (incorrectly) that a commercial arrangement had been concluded between a   and a   under which the plaintiff agreed to the advertising involving the image or reputation of a famous person. The actionable misrepresentation requires a suggestion that the plaintiff has endorsed or licensed the defendant's products, or somehow can exercise control over those products. This is done by way of the   of  .
 The meaning of the law is best illustrated by principal cases on the subject.
 In Australia, false association or endorsement is actionable via the law of  , not a separate law of "right of personality". The   case  was a decision of the Supreme Court of New South Wales (both the first instance and appellate jurisdiction). The plaintiffs were   and they sued the defendant in passing off alleging it wrongfully published their photograph on the cover of a gramophone record entitled  . An injunction was granted on the ground that the use suggested the plaintiffs recommended or approved of the defendant's goods, or had some connection with the goods.
 However, in the 1988 case of  ,   , a well known Australian athlete, failed in his attempt to get a damages award after   used a photograph of him in action on a poster without his permission.  The judge held, in essence, that the poster depicted excellence in general rather than a particular person.
 The provinces of  ,  ,  , and   have enacted privacy legislation dealing with personality rights, which have the following traits: 
 Canadian common law recognizes a limited right to personality. It was first acknowledged in the 1971 Ontario decision of  , where the Court held that where a person has marketable value in their likeness and it has been used in a manner that suggests an endorsement of a product then there is grounds for an action in appropriation of personality. This right was later expanded upon in   (1977) where the Court held that the personality right included both image and name.
 In   (1998), the Ontario Court of Appeal concluded that simply writing   somebody, even for the purpose of generating a profit, does not constitute appropriation of personality.
 The general tort of appropriation of personality is still in development, but it is currently  being argued that it will be recognized in all common law provinces,  with certain characteristics: 
 In 1994, the new   introduced new provisions that enshrine the right to privacy as an attribute of personality: 
  Every person is the holder of personality rights, such as the right to life, the right to the inviolability and integrity of his person, and the right to the respect of his name, reputation and privacy. These rights are inalienable.
 ...
  The following acts, in particular, may be considered as invasions of the privacy of a person:
 In  , the   also affirmed that under Quebec's   privacy provisions, a photographer can take photographs in public places but may not publish the picture unless permission has been obtained from the subject, except where the subject appears in an incidental manner, or whose professional success depends on public opinion.  The relevant provisions of the   are:
   Every person has a right to the safeguard of his dignity, honour and reputation.
   Every person has a right to respect for his private life. Therefore, the following general characteristics may be drawn: 
 In  , people depicted in photographs can oppose their use in advertisements and their publication in magazines, even if it was taken in a public place. 
 In  , the   chapters 26 and 27, provides certain personality rights. The governmental Danish Data Protection Agency, has made a declaration regarding publication on the Internet of pictures taken of persons in a public area: 
 A portrait photograph is defined as a photograph, with the purpose of depicting one or more specific person(s). The personality rights however may be contracted for persons who are generally accepted as public persons.
 In  , personality rights are protected under article 9 of the French civil code.  While publicly known facts and images of public figures are not generally protected, use of someone's image or personal history has been held actionable under French law. The most famous case in recent history is perhaps the publication of the book on   called   in which Mitterrand's doctor published a book that not only revealed private facts about Mitterrand's life, but also revealed medical confidences protected by  .
 In  , personality rights are protected under the  , where the concept of an "absolute person of contemporary history" allows the depiction of individuals who are part of history but still gives them some protection of their rights of privacy outside the public sphere. A succinct statement of the German law can be found in the following judicial statement from the  : the general right of personality has been recognised in the case law of the German   since 1954 as a basic right constitutionally guaranteed by Articles 1 and 2 of the   and at the same time as an "other right" protected in civil law under § 823 (1) of the   (established case law since BGHZ 13, 334, 338 - readers' letters). It guarantees as against all the world the protection of human dignity and the right to free development of the personality. Special forms of manifestation of the general right of personality are the right to one's own picture (§§ 22 ff. of the  ) and the right to one's name (§ 12 of the BGB). They guarantee protection of the personality for the sphere regulated by them. 
 In addition to the general personality rights, there are special rules that forbid taking intimate pictures without consent (§ 184k  ), and that forbid taking pictures which violate the "most personal sphere" of those pictured (§ 201 StGB - in particular, photos of private situations such as inside the bedroom, and photos of helpless persons, such as accident victims). In contrast to the general rules about the right to one's image, these rules also apply to just taking images, not only to publishing them.
 In  , personality rights are protected under the "tutela geral da personalidade" on article 70 of the Portuguese Civil Code and, also, in article 17 of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic.
Some personality rights, like the right to image or honor are specifically typified in the civil code in the articles following the "tutela geral".
Specifically regarding image rights, article 79 of the Portuguese Civil Code states that an image of a person cannot be published or exposed without her consent, even after the person's death (in which case the consent is to be obtained from existing family or heirs). However, consent is not needed for public personalities when in their public roles, for use in scientific, didactic or cultural purposes, or when the image is produced in a public setting. However, if the image harms the honor, reputation or decorum of the person it cannot be reproduced or exposed without consent.
 The relevant Greek laws include 57 AK and 2472/1997. As regarding photography:
 The relevant Guernsey law was enacted on 3 December 2012 under the name of   and allows for the registration of a personality right, together with images associated with that personality. Images are widely defined and can be any number of personal attributes, such as likeness, mannerisms, gestures, voice, nickname etc.
 Personalities able to register fall into 5 categories, namely sole, joint, group, legal and fictional character. In addition, humans can be registered up to 100 years after the date of death, making the law very favourable for estate managers and trustees.
 In  , as in most other common law jurisdictions, there is no separate "personality right", and false association or endorsement is actionable under the law of passing off. The main case on this point relates to   singer/actor   and   over the allegedly unauthorized use of Lau's image on  ,  which has led to the observation that only limited personality rights exist in this jurisdiction. 
 In a 1994 case involving the estate of  , the   acknowledged a property right of personality which survived his death. 
 In October 2007,   duo   sued   for  3.7 million after the publisher's magazine   used photos of the duo on an article on dieting through dancing without their permission. The case was rejected by the  . In February 2012, the Supreme Court rejected the duo's appeal based on the right of publicity. 
 While the concept of Personality Rights is recognized, it is not yet widely known. The Korean terminology ("인격표지영리권", literally translated to "personality sign commercial rights") is still much less frequently used compared to the transcription of the English term "Publicity Rights".
 Nor any independent law on personality rights exist in South Korea (as of October 2023). However, in 2022, a related provision was enacted under the existing Unfair Competition Prevention Act.  This revision is considered to have provided a foundation for an independent Act in near future. Much change is expected as it has been reported that around 80% of Korean entertainment agencies voiced difficulties in publicity right violations of their talents. 
 On Dec. 26, 2022, the Ministry of Justice announced plans to stipulate Personality Rights in Civil Code in the near future. The most notable difference between the new law and the Publicity Rights provision under the Unfair Competition Prevention Act would be the expansion of scope; the new law will go beyond 'celebrities' and will recognize everyone's right to their name, portrait, voice, etc. 
 Personality rights are said to exist to some extent by both influence of constitution and tort liability,  but cases filed to enforce such rights against shopping malls have been unsuccessful. 
 South Korea's portrait rights are too widely recognized compared to other countries. Because of this, it is common for South Korean media reports to blur people's faces in press photos, even though there is no problem of defamation. In contrast, most countries regard blur as a distortion of the truth. It is common that the public's faces photographed only in the South Korean media are blurred even when there in no possibility of defamation. Criticism has been raised against this. 
 In the  , rights of personality are established by statute. According to article 100 and 101 of the   of the People's Republic of China, the right of name and the right of image are protected. It is prohibited to use another's image for commercial use without that person's consent. In the new Tort Liabilities Law which came into effect on Jan 1, 2021, the right of privacy is mentioned for the first time in the legislation. 
 There are few studies on the right to fame in Iranian law. However, through general principles, an attempt has been made to support celebrities. 
 In  , personality rights are protected under the   and the  , which also provides for   and  .  After much uncertainty concerning the recognition of image rights in  , the   provided clarity in the landmark case of  .  In South Africa, a person's right to identity is violated if the attributes of that person is used without permission in a way which cannot be reconciled with the true image of that person.  Apart from the unauthorized use of a person's image, this kind of infringement also entails some kind of misrepresentation concerning the individual, such as that the individual approves or endorses a particular product or service or that an attorney is a partner in a firm, while this is not the case.  Secondly, the right to identity is violated if the attributes of a person is used without authorization by another person for commercial gain.  Apart from the unauthorized use of the individual's image, such use also primarily entails a commercial motive which is exclusively aimed at promoting a service or product or to solicit clients or customers.  The mere fact that the user may benefit or profit from any product or service in respect of which the individual's attributes have incidentally been used, is not in itself sufficient.  This violation of the right to identity therefore also entails unauthorized use of the individual's attributes with a commercial purpose, whether it is done by means of advertisement or the manufacture and distribution of merchandise covered with the attributes of the individual. Personality rights are not absolute and it goes without saying that the use of a person's attributes must be unlawful before a plaintiff will succeed with any claim.  With the use of a person's image, the personality rights, privacy,   and   of the individual must often be weighed against the user's right to  .  The use of a person's image can be justified on the grounds of consent, truth and public interest, fair comment and jest. 
 According to the agency (Spanish) Data Protection for the collection and dissemination on Internet of images of a person without their consent may be a serious breach of the Data Protection Act which would be punishable by a minimum fine of 60,000 euros.  According to   Data Protection Agency decided to investigate ex officio by the mere distribution of the image of a person on the Internet without their consent. 
 In the United States, the right of publicity is a  –based right, as opposed to federal, and recognition of the right can vary from state to state.  The rationale underlying the right of publicity in the   is rooted in both privacy and economic exploitation.   The rights are based in tort law, and parallel Prosser's "Four Torts" which might be summarized as: 1) Intrusion upon physical solitude; 2) public disclosure of private facts; 3) depiction in a false light; and 4) appropriation of name and likeness.  If looking at it through the prism of Prosser's four torts, violation of a right of publicity most closely aligns with appropriation.  The right of publicity often is manifest in advertising or merchandise.  In states without a specific right of publicity statute, the right of publicity is usually recognized via common law.  The right of publicity has evolved rapidly, with a history of reported cases in the United States and worldwide. 
 The right of publicity is defined as the right of all individuals to control commercial use of their names, images, likenesses, or other identifying aspects of identity.  In certain contexts, the right of publicity is limited (under U.S. law) by the  . The right of publicity can be referred to as   or even  . The term "right of publicity" was coined by Judge   in 1953. 
 The extent of recognition of this right in the U.S. is largely driven by   or  . Because the right of publicity is primarily governed by state (as opposed to federal) law, the degree of recognition of the right of publicity can vary from one state to the next. The right of publicity is not simply an analog to trademark law, though it could be noted that the right of publicity has some commonality with the protection of trademarks as long as one understands that the right of publicity is a distinct legal doctrine, with its own policies, objectives and standards, including notable differences from trademark law.  For example, falsity or likelihood of confusion generally do not have to be established to present a colorable right of publicity claim.
 At a national level, the   held in the 1977 case   that the   did not   a   from liability for broadcasting  's   act without his consent. This was the first, and so far the only, U.S. Supreme Court ruling on rights of publicity and it served to confirm the overall validity of the doctrine and the interests it protects.
  has one of the stronger right of publicity statutes in the U.S., providing recognition of the right for 100 years after death, and protecting not only the usual "name, image and likeness", but also  ,  ,  , distinctive appearances, and mannerisms.  Notably, Oklahoma also provides 100 years of protection after death, and Tennessee's statute provides rights that do not ever expire if use is continuous. There are other notable characteristics of the Indiana law,  though most of the major movement in right of publicity emanates from   and  , with a significant body of case law which suggest potentially contradictory positions with respect to recognition of the right of publicity under certain circumstances.
 Some states recognize the right through statute and some others through common law. California has both statutory and common-law strains of authority protecting slightly different forms of the right. The right of publicity shares characteristics of a property right and as such is transferable to the person's heirs after their death. The   was passed in   in 1985 and it extended the personality rights for a celebrity to 70 years after their death. Previously, the 1979   decision by the   held that  's personality rights could not pass to his heirs. 
 California Civil Code Section 3344(a) states:


URL: https://sh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedija:Op%C4%87e_odricanje_odgovornosti

Content: W 
  je internetska enciklopedija otvorenog sadržaja koja funkcionira na temelju volonterske suradnje pojedinaca i skupina pojedinaca, s zajedničkim ciljem stvaranja izvora ljudskog znanja. Ustrojstvo projekta omogućava svakoj osobi s vezom na Internet i preglednikom World Wide Weba mijenjanje sadržaja enciklopedije. Molimo shvatite da nijedan podatak koji ovdje pronađete nije nužno provjeren od strane profesionalaca, niti ovdjeprisutni mogu osigurati potpunu, točnu ili pouzdanu informaciju.
 To ne znači da u   nećete pribaviti vrijednu i točnu informaciju, naprotiv, najčešće hoćete. Međutim,    Sadržaj članaka može u svakom trenutku biti izmijenjen, vandaliziran ili preinačen od strane pojedinca čije mišljenje nije odraz znanja iz tog područja.  
 Trenutno radimo na načinima odabiranja i isticanja pouzdanih inačica članaka. Naša aktivna zajednica urednika pri praćenju i mijenjanju sadržaja koristi alate poput pohrane   i  . No   se ne pregledava ujednačeno, a čitatelji se, iako mogu ispravljati greške, ne nalaze pod pravnom obvezom, pa informacije koje ovdje pročitate nemaju naznačeno jamstvo ispravnosti za bilo kakvo korištenje. Čak i ravnopravno i nepristrano vrednovani ili   zadržavaju vjerojatnost naknadnog neprikladnog uređivanja.
 Molimo, shvatite da doprinose u vidu informacija dajete slobodno, i pritom ne dolazi ni do kakavog sporazuma između vas i vlasnika ili korisnika stranica, vlasnika poslužitelja na kojima su postavljene, pojedinih suradnika  , administratora projekta, "sysopa" ili ikoga tko je   s ovim ili nekim od sestrinskih projekata. Ta ista osoba ne može izravno odgovarati na vaše optužbe. Dodijeljena vam je ograničena licenca s pravom kopiranja cjelokupnog sadržaja ovih stranica, no ona ne podrazumijeva niti dovodi do ugovorne ili izvanugovorne odgovornosti   ili njenih agenata, članova, organizatora ili drugih korisnika.
  u svezi s korištenjem ili mijenjanjem ovdje prisutnih podataka je   (GFDL); nijedan član   nije odgovoran za promjene, preinake, modifikacije ili brisanje podataka koje ste dodali   ili ijednom drugom povezanom projektu.
 Zaštitni znakovi, zbirni i znakovi službe, patentna prava, prava identiteta ili slična spomenuta, korištena ili u Wikipedijinim člancima navedena prava, su imovina svojih vlasnika. Njihova pojavnost na ovim stranicama ne znači da ih možete koristiti za svrhu drugačiju od iste ili slične informacijske namjene, a u skladu s namjerom autora enciklopedijskih članaka u skladu s GFDL dozvolom. Osim ako nije drugačije navedeno,   Wikipedia i Wikimedia ne podržavaju niti su ni na koji način povezani s nositeljima tih prava, pa kao takva   ne jamči pravo na korištenje inače zaštićene građe.  
 Podaci objavljeni u   možda krše zakone države iz koje pregledate te podatke. Wikipedijina baza podataka nalazi se na poslužitelju u saveznoj državi   u  , te se održava u skladu s uputama o čuvanju koje pružaju mjesni i federalni zakoni. Zakonska regulativa u vašoj zemlji možda ne štiti ili ne dopušta istu slobodu govora ili kopiranja.   ne potiče kršenje zakona, niti se može smatrati odgovornom za zlodjela koja proizlaze iz vašeg povezivanja na ovu domenu, korištenja, reprodukcije ili objavljivanja informacija koje ovdje pronađete.
 Ako trebate savjet u nekom području (medicina, pravo, financije, ili vezano uz određeni rizik), molimo potražite stručnjaka koji je licenciran, poznat ili prihvaćen u svom području. Za posebna odricanja pogledajte  ,   i  .
 Zahvaljujemo na vremenu koje ste utrošili na čitanje ove stranice; nastavite uživati u blagodatima  ! 


URL: https://sh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedija:Op%C4%87e_odricanje_odgovornosti

Content: W 
  je internetska enciklopedija otvorenog sadržaja koja funkcionira na temelju volonterske suradnje pojedinaca i skupina pojedinaca, s zajedničkim ciljem stvaranja izvora ljudskog znanja. Ustrojstvo projekta omogućava svakoj osobi s vezom na Internet i preglednikom World Wide Weba mijenjanje sadržaja enciklopedije. Molimo shvatite da nijedan podatak koji ovdje pronađete nije nužno provjeren od strane profesionalaca, niti ovdjeprisutni mogu osigurati potpunu, točnu ili pouzdanu informaciju.
 To ne znači da u   nećete pribaviti vrijednu i točnu informaciju, naprotiv, najčešće hoćete. Međutim,    Sadržaj članaka može u svakom trenutku biti izmijenjen, vandaliziran ili preinačen od strane pojedinca čije mišljenje nije odraz znanja iz tog područja.  
 Trenutno radimo na načinima odabiranja i isticanja pouzdanih inačica članaka. Naša aktivna zajednica urednika pri praćenju i mijenjanju sadržaja koristi alate poput pohrane   i  . No   se ne pregledava ujednačeno, a čitatelji se, iako mogu ispravljati greške, ne nalaze pod pravnom obvezom, pa informacije koje ovdje pročitate nemaju naznačeno jamstvo ispravnosti za bilo kakvo korištenje. Čak i ravnopravno i nepristrano vrednovani ili   zadržavaju vjerojatnost naknadnog neprikladnog uređivanja.
 Molimo, shvatite da doprinose u vidu informacija dajete slobodno, i pritom ne dolazi ni do kakavog sporazuma između vas i vlasnika ili korisnika stranica, vlasnika poslužitelja na kojima su postavljene, pojedinih suradnika  , administratora projekta, "sysopa" ili ikoga tko je   s ovim ili nekim od sestrinskih projekata. Ta ista osoba ne može izravno odgovarati na vaše optužbe. Dodijeljena vam je ograničena licenca s pravom kopiranja cjelokupnog sadržaja ovih stranica, no ona ne podrazumijeva niti dovodi do ugovorne ili izvanugovorne odgovornosti   ili njenih agenata, članova, organizatora ili drugih korisnika.
  u svezi s korištenjem ili mijenjanjem ovdje prisutnih podataka je   (GFDL); nijedan član   nije odgovoran za promjene, preinake, modifikacije ili brisanje podataka koje ste dodali   ili ijednom drugom povezanom projektu.
 Zaštitni znakovi, zbirni i znakovi službe, patentna prava, prava identiteta ili slična spomenuta, korištena ili u Wikipedijinim člancima navedena prava, su imovina svojih vlasnika. Njihova pojavnost na ovim stranicama ne znači da ih možete koristiti za svrhu drugačiju od iste ili slične informacijske namjene, a u skladu s namjerom autora enciklopedijskih članaka u skladu s GFDL dozvolom. Osim ako nije drugačije navedeno,   Wikipedia i Wikimedia ne podržavaju niti su ni na koji način povezani s nositeljima tih prava, pa kao takva   ne jamči pravo na korištenje inače zaštićene građe.  
 Podaci objavljeni u   možda krše zakone države iz koje pregledate te podatke. Wikipedijina baza podataka nalazi se na poslužitelju u saveznoj državi   u  , te se održava u skladu s uputama o čuvanju koje pružaju mjesni i federalni zakoni. Zakonska regulativa u vašoj zemlji možda ne štiti ili ne dopušta istu slobodu govora ili kopiranja.   ne potiče kršenje zakona, niti se može smatrati odgovornom za zlodjela koja proizlaze iz vašeg povezivanja na ovu domenu, korištenja, reprodukcije ili objavljivanja informacija koje ovdje pronađete.
 Ako trebate savjet u nekom području (medicina, pravo, financije, ili vezano uz određeni rizik), molimo potražite stručnjaka koji je licenciran, poznat ili prihvaćen u svom području. Za posebna odricanja pogledajte  ,   i  .
 Zahvaljujemo na vremenu koje ste utrošili na čitanje ove stranice; nastavite uživati u blagodatima  ! 


URL: https://ckb.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%DB%8C%DA%A9%DB%8C%D9%BE%DB%8C%D8%AF%DB%8C%D8%A7:%D8%A8%DB%95%D8%B1%D9%BE%D8%B1%D8%B3%D9%86%DB%95%D8%A8%D9%88%D9%88%D9%86

Content: 
ویکیپیدیا ھیچ بەڵێنێک لەسەر ڕاستیبوون نادات.
 


URL: https://fiu-vro.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Hoiatuisi

Content:  
 Tast lövvät mynõq  


URL: https://so.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Masuul_la%27aan_guud

Content: Ka: Wikipedia.
 
 


URL: https://so.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Masuul_la%27aan_guud

Content: Ka: Wikipedia.
 
 


URL: https://ckb.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%DB%8C%DA%A9%DB%8C%D9%BE%DB%8C%D8%AF%DB%8C%D8%A7:%D8%A8%DB%95%D8%B1%D9%BE%D8%B1%D8%B3%D9%86%DB%95%D8%A8%D9%88%D9%88%D9%86

Content: 
ویکیپیدیا ھیچ بەڵێنێک لەسەر ڕاستیبوون نادات.
 


URL: https://sr.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%98%D0%B0:%D0%9E%D0%B4%D1%80%D0%B8%D1%86%D0%B0%D1%9A%D0%B5_%D0%BE%D0%B4%D0%B3%D0%BE%D0%B2%D0%BE%D1%80%D0%BD%D0%BE%D1%81%D1%82%D0%B8

Content: Википедија не гарантује потпуност ни тачност информација ни података
  је сарадничка енциклопедија отвореног садржаја на Интернету, тј. добровољно удружење група и појединаца који стварају и развијају заједнички извор људског сазнања. Сама структура пројекта омогућава свакоме са везом ка Интернету и мрежним прегледачем (Internet Explorer, Safari, Firefox, Mozilla, Opera,...), да мења његов садржај. Будите свесни да било шта што прочитате овде највероватније није прегледано од стране особа довољно стручних да вам пруже потпуне, тачне или поуздане информације.
 То не значи да на Википедији нећете наћи вредне и тачне информације; углавном хоћете. Ипак,   Садржај било којег чланка је могао у скорије време бити потпуно промењен, вандализован или измењен од стране некога чије мишљење не одговара стању сазнања из битних области. Имајте у виду да и друге енциклопедије и референтна дела имају  .
 Радимо на начинима за одабир и истицање поузданих верзија чланака. Наша активна заједница уредника користи алатке као што су   и  , да надгледа додавање новог и измену постојећег садржаја. Ипак, Википедија се не проверава равномерно; мада читаоци могу да исправљају грешке или да се упуштају у необавезне  ,  немају никакву правну обавезу да то раде. Стога све информације које овде прочитате прихватите без икакве наговештене гаранције подобности за било коју сврху или употребу. Чак и чланци који су издвојени необавезном заједничком провером или процесима за избор   могу касније бити уређени неприлично, и то тик пре него што их ви прегледате.
 Молимо вас да се потрудите да разумете да су информације које су овде пружене, пружене слободно и да не постоји никакав споразум или уговор начињен између вас и власника и корисника овог сајта, власника сервера на којем је смештен, појединачних доприносилаца  , било којег од администратора или „бирократа“ пројекта као ни било кога другог   са овим или његовим братским пројектима ко би био директно подложан вашим наводима против њих. Имате ограничену дозволу (лиценцу) да копирате било шта са овог сајта; она не ствара нити наговештава икакву уговорну или вануговорну одговорност   нити било кога од њених агената, чланова, организатора или других корисника.
 Не постоји   у вези вашег коришћења или модификовања ових информација ван оквира   (ГЛСД, GFDL); нити је ико на   одговоран ако неко измени, уреди, промени или уклони било коју информацију коју поставите на   или било који од њој повезаних пројеката.
 Било који од заштитних ( ), сервисних ( ) или збирних знакова ( ), права дизајна ( ), права личности ( ) или сличних права која се помињу, користе или наводе у чланцима енциклопедије Википедија су власништво њихових дотичних власника. Њихова употреба овде не наговештава да их можете користити у било коју другу сврху сем оне исте или сличне информативне употребе која је замишљена од стране оригиналних аутора ових Википедијиних чланака, под шемом лиценцирања ГЛСД. Осим ако је другачије наглашено, Википедија и Викимедијини сајтови нити подржавају нити су повезани са било којих од власника таквих права и   као таква не може да да никаква права на коришћење материјала који је иначе заштићен.  
 Објављивање информација и садржаја Википедије, може бити схваћено као кршење закона неких држава или правних ентитета из којих ви имате приступ овим информацијама. База података Википедије се чува на серверима у држави   ( ), те њихово одржавање и чување подлеже локалним и федералним законима тих правних ентитета и држава. Закони у вашој држави или правном ентитету могу заговарати и бранити сасвим другачије ставове у вези. Википедија не подржава нити охрабрује кршење ничијих закона, те стога не може одговарати за било какво кршење нечијих закона, ни бити одговорна за повезивање садржаја Википедије са интернет доменима, који подлежу другачијим законима, као ни за репродуковање или објављивање информација и података који се у њој садрже.
 Ако имате потребе за неким саветом (на пример: медицинским, правним, финансијским или у вези пословних ризика), молимо да се обратите професионалном стручњаку из области. Погледајте:  ,   и   за више специфична објашњења одрицања одговорности.
 Хвала на времену које сте утрошили да прочитате ову страницу, и желимо вам да уживате у коришћењу и прегледању Википедије.
 Иако је садржај других енциклопедија (које се разликују од Википедије по лиценци под којом се објављују), прегледан и потврђен од стране стручњака и професионалаца из разних области, ипак се не гарантује исправност, тачност и потпуност њиховог садржаја.
 


URL: https://sk.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:Vyl%C3%BA%C4%8Denie_zodpovednosti

Content:  ~   ~  
  je otvorená internetová  , tzn. zoskupenie dobrovoľníkov, ktorí vytvárajú databázu ľudského poznania. Jej princípy dovoľujú komukoľvek s pripojením k internetu a webovým prehliadačom meniť jej obsah. Preto je treba upozorniť, že nič, čo tu nájdete, nemuselo byť skontrolované a nemusí obsahovať úplné, presné ani spoľahlivé informácie.
 To neznamená, že vo Wikipédii nemôžete nájsť hodnotné a podrobné informácie, ale je treba si uvedomiť, že Wikipédia sa nemôže žiadnym spôsobom zaručiť za presnosť informácií, ktoré uvádza. Tieto informácie mohol zmeniť či poškodiť niekto, koho názory sa nezhodujú s aktuálnym stavom znalostí v danom obore. Snažíme sa vytvoriť metódy, ako vybrať a ponúknuť najspoľahlivejšie verzie článkov. Momentálne ponúkame túto možnosť pomocou zoznamu  . Avšak aj články tu uvedené mohli byť nevhodne zmenené tesne pred tým, ako si ich pozriete.
 Pochopte prosím, že informácie tu ponúkané sú poskytované zdarma a neexistuje žiadna zmluva medzi vami a majiteľmi či používateľmi týchto stránok, vlastníkmi serverov, na ktorých Wikipédia beží, jednotlivými prispievateľmi, správcami, či akoukoľvek inou osobou spojenou s Wikipédiou.
 Uvedomte si prosím, že informácie tu uvedené môžu porušovať zákony krajiny, z ktorej si ich pozeráte. Wikipédia je proti porušovaniu zákonov, ale obsah Wikipédie je uložený na serveroch v štáte   v  , kde je právo na zverejňovanie informácií chránené Prvým dodatkom   a princípmi  . Zákony Vašej krajiny nemusia poskytovať tak širokú ochranu slobody slova, takže Wikipédia nemôže zodpovedať za prípadné porušenie príslušných zákonov.
 Ďakujeme za Váš čas strávený prečítaním tejto stránky a prajeme Vám príjemné používanie Wikipédie.


URL: https://vo.wikipedia.org/wiki/V%C3%BCkiped:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://vi.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Ph%E1%BB%A7_nh%E1%BA%ADn_chung

Content:  là một bách khoa toàn thư trực tuyến với nội dung mở nhờ sự hợp tác giữa rất nhiều người, có nghĩa là một tập thể tình nguyện bao gồm các cá nhân và nhóm người cùng xây dựng một kho kiến thức chung của nhân loại. Cấu trúc của dự án cho phép bất cứ ai chỉ cần kết nối với Internet là đã có thể sửa đổi được nội dung. Vì thế, xin hiểu rằng những gì tìm được ở đây không nhất thiết là đã được những nhà chuyên môn thẩm định nhằm cung cấp cho bạn những thông tin hoàn hảo, chính xác và đáng tin cậy.
 Nói như vậy không có nghĩa là bạn sẽ không tìm thấy những thông tin giá trị và chính xác từ Wikipedia; phần lớn thông tin sẽ là chính xác. Dù vậy,  . Nội dung của bất kỳ bài viết nào đều có thể bị sửa đổi, phá hoại hoặc thay thế bởi những người không thuộc về chuyên môn. Lưu ý rằng hầu hết bách khoa toàn thư và trang tham khảo khác cũng có những lời phủ nhận.
 Cộng đồng thành viên năng động của chúng tôi sử dụng những công cụ như   và   để theo dõi những nội dung mới hoặc vừa thay đổi. Tuy vậy, Wikipedia không được thẩm định chéo một cách nhất quán; tuy độc giả có thể sửa các lỗi sai hoặc bắt tay   một cách tự nhiên, họ không hề bị ràng buộc trách nhiệm pháp lý nào khi làm như vậy và do đó tất cả thông tin đọc được ở đây đều không được đảm bảo sẽ phù hợp cho bất kỳ mục đích nào hoặc hình thức sử dụng như thế nào. Thậm chí những bài viết đã được hiệu đính ở mức độ thẩm định chéo không chính thức hay đã thông qua quy trình   vẫn có thể bị sửa đổi theo cách không thích hợp, có thể là ngay trước khi bạn xem chúng.
 
 Xin hãy chắc chắn là bạn hiểu rằng những thông tin được cung cấp ở đây được cung cấp một cách tự do, và rằng không có bất cứ một thoả ước hay hợp đồng gì được tạo ra giữa bạn và người sở hữu cũng như người sử dụng trang web, người sở hữu các máy chủ chứa nó, từng cá nhân cộng tác viên của Wikipedia, các quản trị viên, bảo quản viên dự án hoặc bất cứ ai có bất kì   gì đến dự này này hoặc các dự án chị em, để bạn có thể trực tiếp kiện họ. Bạn đang được trao một li-xăng có hạn chế để sao chép bất kì thứ gì từ trang web này; nó không tạo ra hoặc hàm ý bất cứ một khế ước hoặc khế ước phụ về trách nhiệm pháp lý cho phía   hoặc bất cứ đại diện, thành viên, thành lập viên hoặc những người dùng khác.
  liên quan đến việc sử dụng và chỉnh sửa thông tin này, theo như   (CC BY-SA) và   (GFDL); không có bất kỳ ai tại Wikipedia chịu trách nhiệm cho việc có ai đó thay, sửa, điều chỉnh hoặc xóa bỏ bất kỳ thông tin nào mà bạn đăng nó lên Wikipedia hoặc bất kỳ dự án đi chung với Wikipedia.
 Bất cứ các thương hiệu, dấu hiệu dịch vụ, dấu hiệu tập thể, quyền thiết kế hoặc các quyền tương tự được đề cập, sử dụng hoặc trích dẫn trong các bài viết của bách khoa toàn thư Wikipedia, đều thuộc về chủ sở hữu tương ứng. Việc sử dụng chúng ở đây không có nghĩa là bạn có thể dùng chúng cho bất cứ mục đích nào khác cách dùng để chuyển tải thông tin y hệt hoặc tương tự với dự tính của tác giả gốc của các bài viết Wikipedia theo hệ thống các giấy phép CC BY-SA và GFDL. Nếu không đề cập khác đi thì các trang Wikipedia và Wikimedia không được bảo trợ hoặc có liên kết với chủ nhân của các bản quyền trên và cũng do đó Wikipedia không thể cho phép bất cứ quyền nào sử dụng các tài liệu đã được bảo hộ. Bạn phải chấp nhận mạo hiểm khi sử dụng các tài sản vô hình như vậy hoặc tương tự như vậy.
 Wikipedia có chứa những thông tin trong đó miêu tả một người cụ thể vẫn còn sống hoặc vừa mới qua đời. Việc sử dụng hình ảnh của các cá nhân đang còn sống hoặc vừa mới mất, trong một số bộ luật, bị luật pháp hạn chế do có liên quan đến  , hoàn toàn độc lập với tình trạng bản quyền của hình ảnh đó. Trước khi sử dụng những loại nội dung này, xin hãy đảm bảo rằng luật pháp cho phép bạn sử dụng chúng theo đúng tình huống mà bạn dự định sử dụng.   
 Việc xuất bản những thông tin tìm thấy tại Wikipedia có thể vi phạm luật pháp của quốc gia hoặc phạm vi tài phán của nơi bạn đang xem thông tin này. Cơ sở dữ liệu của Wikipedia được lưu trữ trong máy chủ đặt tại  , và được duy trì dưới sự bảo hộ của luật pháp liên bang và địa phương. Luật pháp tại quốc gia hoặc địa phương của bạn có thể không bảo hộ hoặc cho phép những loại phát ngôn hoặc phân bổ như vậy. Wikipedia không khuyến khích sự vi phạm bất kỳ luật pháp nào; và không thể chịu trách nhiệm cho bất kỳ sự vi phạm nào như vậy, về việc bạn liên kết đến tên miền này hoặc sử dụng, tái sử dụng, hoặc tái xuất bản thông tin lưu giữ tại đây.
 Nếu bạn cần lời khuyên cụ thể (ví dụ như về y tế, pháp luật, tài chính, hoặc quản lý rủi ro) xin hãy tìm một chuyên gia có bằng cấp hoặc có kiến thức về lĩnh vực đó.


URL: https://sr.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%98%D0%B0:%D0%9E%D0%B4%D1%80%D0%B8%D1%86%D0%B0%D1%9A%D0%B5_%D0%BE%D0%B4%D0%B3%D0%BE%D0%B2%D0%BE%D1%80%D0%BD%D0%BE%D1%81%D1%82%D0%B8

Content: Википедија не гарантује потпуност ни тачност информација ни података
  је сарадничка енциклопедија отвореног садржаја на Интернету, тј. добровољно удружење група и појединаца који стварају и развијају заједнички извор људског сазнања. Сама структура пројекта омогућава свакоме са везом ка Интернету и мрежним прегледачем (Internet Explorer, Safari, Firefox, Mozilla, Opera,...), да мења његов садржај. Будите свесни да било шта што прочитате овде највероватније није прегледано од стране особа довољно стручних да вам пруже потпуне, тачне или поуздане информације.
 То не значи да на Википедији нећете наћи вредне и тачне информације; углавном хоћете. Ипак,   Садржај било којег чланка је могао у скорије време бити потпуно промењен, вандализован или измењен од стране некога чије мишљење не одговара стању сазнања из битних области. Имајте у виду да и друге енциклопедије и референтна дела имају  .
 Радимо на начинима за одабир и истицање поузданих верзија чланака. Наша активна заједница уредника користи алатке као што су   и  , да надгледа додавање новог и измену постојећег садржаја. Ипак, Википедија се не проверава равномерно; мада читаоци могу да исправљају грешке или да се упуштају у необавезне  ,  немају никакву правну обавезу да то раде. Стога све информације које овде прочитате прихватите без икакве наговештене гаранције подобности за било коју сврху или употребу. Чак и чланци који су издвојени необавезном заједничком провером или процесима за избор   могу касније бити уређени неприлично, и то тик пре него што их ви прегледате.
 Молимо вас да се потрудите да разумете да су информације које су овде пружене, пружене слободно и да не постоји никакав споразум или уговор начињен између вас и власника и корисника овог сајта, власника сервера на којем је смештен, појединачних доприносилаца  , било којег од администратора или „бирократа“ пројекта као ни било кога другог   са овим или његовим братским пројектима ко би био директно подложан вашим наводима против њих. Имате ограничену дозволу (лиценцу) да копирате било шта са овог сајта; она не ствара нити наговештава икакву уговорну или вануговорну одговорност   нити било кога од њених агената, чланова, организатора или других корисника.
 Не постоји   у вези вашег коришћења или модификовања ових информација ван оквира   (ГЛСД, GFDL); нити је ико на   одговоран ако неко измени, уреди, промени или уклони било коју информацију коју поставите на   или било који од њој повезаних пројеката.
 Било који од заштитних ( ), сервисних ( ) или збирних знакова ( ), права дизајна ( ), права личности ( ) или сличних права која се помињу, користе или наводе у чланцима енциклопедије Википедија су власништво њихових дотичних власника. Њихова употреба овде не наговештава да их можете користити у било коју другу сврху сем оне исте или сличне информативне употребе која је замишљена од стране оригиналних аутора ових Википедијиних чланака, под шемом лиценцирања ГЛСД. Осим ако је другачије наглашено, Википедија и Викимедијини сајтови нити подржавају нити су повезани са било којих од власника таквих права и   као таква не може да да никаква права на коришћење материјала који је иначе заштићен.  
 Објављивање информација и садржаја Википедије, може бити схваћено као кршење закона неких држава или правних ентитета из којих ви имате приступ овим информацијама. База података Википедије се чува на серверима у држави   ( ), те њихово одржавање и чување подлеже локалним и федералним законима тих правних ентитета и држава. Закони у вашој држави или правном ентитету могу заговарати и бранити сасвим другачије ставове у вези. Википедија не подржава нити охрабрује кршење ничијих закона, те стога не може одговарати за било какво кршење нечијих закона, ни бити одговорна за повезивање садржаја Википедије са интернет доменима, који подлежу другачијим законима, као ни за репродуковање или објављивање информација и података који се у њој садрже.
 Ако имате потребе за неким саветом (на пример: медицинским, правним, финансијским или у вези пословних ризика), молимо да се обратите професионалном стручњаку из области. Погледајте:  ,   и   за више специфична објашњења одрицања одговорности.
 Хвала на времену које сте утрошили да прочитате ову страницу, и желимо вам да уживате у коришћењу и прегледању Википедије.
 Иако је садржај других енциклопедија (које се разликују од Википедије по лиценци под којом се објављују), прегледан и потврђен од стране стручњака и професионалаца из разних области, ипак се не гарантује исправност, тачност и потпуност њиховог садржаја.
 


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Contributions/102.213.92.30

Content: No changes were found matching these criteria.
 This page is not available in other languages.

URL: https://sd.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%DA%AA%D9%8A%D9%BE%D9%8A%DA%8A%D9%8A%D8%A7:%D8%B9%D8%A7%D9%85_%D8%BA%D9%8A%D8%B1%D8%AC%D9%88%D8%A7%D8%A8%D8%AF%D8%A7%D8%B1%D9%8A%D9%86%D8%A7%D9%85%D9%88

Content: 
 
 ڪوئي به تجارتي نشان،خدمتي نشان،گڏيل نشان، خاڪن يانمونن جا حق يا ساڳيئيءَ طرح جا حق جيڪي ذڪر ڪيل هجن،استعمال ياوڪي پيڊيا انسائيڪلوپيڊيا ڄاڻ چيڪلو مضمونن ۾ حوالا ڏنل هجن، سي تمام نشان سندن متعلقا مالڪن جي ملڪيت آهين.
انهين نشانن جو هتي  استعمال ٿيل هجڻ جو اهو هرگز مقصد ناهي ته ڪو اوهين پڻ انهين کي ڪنهن به مقصد لاءِ ڪُتِب آڻيو سواءِ ان جي ته اهي وڪيپيڊيا مضمونن  لائسنز اسڪيم تحت جي اصل ليکڪ جي غور و مشاهدي سان معلوماتي استعمال ۾ آندا ويا آهن. ٻئي صورت ۾ جيسيتائين  بيان ڪيل  ڪنهن به تجارتي نشاني حقن جي رکندڙسان  وڪيپيڊيا ۽ وڪي ميڊيا سائيٽس  جو نه توثيق نڪي الحاق ٿيل آهي، جيئن ته وڪيپيڊيا انهن حقن جي استعمال ڪرڻ جي اجازت نٿي ڏئي سواءِ تحفظ شدا مواد لاءِ. انهين اموري ملڪيت جي تجارتي نشاني حقن جو توهان پاران استعمال توهانجي پنهنجي جوکم تحت هوندو.
 وڪيپيڊيا  ۾ شامل مواد  زندهه شخص يا  ويجهر ۾رهلت ڪري ويل بابت ٿي سگهي ٿو. ۽ انهن زندهه يا فوت ٿيل شخصيتن جي ڇاپن يا تصويرن جو استعمال ڪنهن دائري ڪارتحت، شخصي حقن تحت محدود آهي. انهن شين کي استعمال ڪرڻ کان پهرئين اها پڪ ڪريو ته انهين جي ارادي ڪيل استعمال ڪرڻ جو توهان کي ڪو قانوني حق هجي. توهان ان ڳالهه جا اڪيلا ذميوار آهيو ۽ پڪ ڪيو ته توهان ڪنهن ٻئي جي شخصي حقن جي خلاف ورزي نه ڪيو. 
 ٿي سهگي ٿو ته وڪي پيڊيا تي لڀيل، ڇاپيل ڄاڻ جو مواد انهيءَ ملڪ ۾ قانون يا دائري اختيار  جي خلاف ورزي هجي جتان اوهان اها ڄاڻ ڏسي رهيا هجو. وڪي پيڊيا جي ڊيٽابيس  آمريڪا ۾ ڪمپيوٽر سرورز تي ذخيرو ٿيل آهي ۽  مڪاني ۽  وفاقي قانون سان مهيا ٿيل تحفظات تحت برقرار آهي.
توهانجي ملڪ جو قانون ۽ دائري ڪار شايدساڳيئي طرح جي تقرير و تقسيم جو تحفظ فراهم نه ڪندو هجي. وڪي پيڊيا ڪنهن به قسم جي قانوني خلاف ورزي کي نٿي همٿائي ۽ اهڙي ڪنهن به قانوني خلاف ورزي جي ذميدار ناهي
 جيڪڏنهن توهان کي مخصوص صلاح مشوري جي ضرورت آهي(جيئن طبي،قانوني،مالي يا وري خطر انتظامي) ته لاڳاپيل شعبي جي  ڪنهن سنديافتا ماهر سان رابطو ڪريو.


URL: https://sl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedija:Splo%C5%A1no_zanikanje_odgovornosti

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W 
  je spletna odprtovsebinska (   ) enciklopedija. To pomeni, da je prostovoljna povezava posameznikov in skupin, ki razvijajo skupen vir človeškega znanja. Njena struktura omogoča, da lahko vsak, ki ima spletno povezavo in spletni brskalnik, spreminja njeno vsebino. Zato bodite pozorni, da ni nobenega jamstva o tem, da je katerakoli od vsebin enciklopedije strokovno pregledana in potrjena s strani strokovnjakov z ustreznim znanjem na posameznem področju, kar bi omogočalo celovito, ažurno in zanesljivo informacijo o kateremkoli zapisu v enciklopediji  .
 To ne pomeni, da v enciklopediji   ne boste našli ažurnih in uporabnih informacij, vendar pa vas opozarjamo, da   na noben način   za pravilnost vsebine v enciklopediji. Mogoče je, da je bil katerikoli del vsebine pred kratkim spremenjen oziroma dopolnjen, podvržen vandalizmu ali ga je spremenil nekdo, čigar mnenje ne ustreza trenutnemu stanju strokovnega znanja na področju, glede katerega potrebujete informacijo. Trudimo se izboljšati načine izbire in odobritve zanesljivejših različic prispevkov, vendar kljub temu nikakor ne moremo jamčiti za njihovo pravilnost. Najboljši trenutni približek temu cilju so  . Vendar je možno, da so bili tudi ti članki neusmiljeno spremenjeni, tik preden ste jih začeli brati.
 Posebej vas opozarjamo, da je ponujena vsebina na razpolago brezplačno in brez kakršnihkoli omejitev. Z njeno uporabo ne nastane nikakršen pravni posel med vami in lastniki oziroma uporabniki tega spletišča, lastniki strežnikov, na katerih se spletišče nahaja, posameznimi osebami, ki so prispevale vsebino, projektnimi vodji ali administratorji, sistemskimi upravitelji ali drugimi osebami, ki so na kakršenkoli način povezane s tem ali s sestrskimi projekti. Zato od njih ne morete ničesar neposredno ali posredno zahtevati. Pravico imate reproducirati karkoli na tem spletišču, vendar pa takšno dejanje ne ustvari in tudi ne podrazumeva nobene pogodbene ali odškodninske obveznosti na strani enciklopedije   ali njenih predstavnikov, članov, organizatorjev ali drugih uporabnikov.
 Vse registrirane znamke, trgovske znamke, oblikovalske pravice, avtorske pravice ipd., ki so omenjene, uporabljene ali navedene v člankih Wikipedije, so v lasti njihovih spoštovanih lastnikov. Njihova uporaba tukaj ne pomeni, da jih lahko sami uporabljate za kakršenkoli drugačen razlog, kot iz tega ali podobnega informativnega razloga, kakor so uporabljene v originalnih Wikipedijinih člankih pod GFDL licenčno shemo. Razen, če ni drugače navedeno, nihče od nosilcev takih pravic ne podpira ali sodeluje z Wikipedijo ali Wikimedijinimi stranmi. Zato Wikipedija ne more zagotavljati pravic uporabe nobenega registriranega materiala.  
 Prosimo, zapomnite si, da je lahko vsebina, ki jo vidite tukaj, v nasprotju z zakoni območja, od koder dostopate do nje.   ne podpira kršenja zakonov. Ker so te informacije shranjene na strežniku na   v  , je vzdrževana v skladu z zaščito, zajamčeno vsem v     in načelih    . Zakoni Vaše države mogoče ne priznavajo tako široke zaščite svobodnega govora kot zakoni   ali načela Združenih narodov. Zato   ne more biti odgovorna za kršenje teh zakonov, če navedete povezave nanjo ali uporabite informacije, shranjene na teh straneh na kakršenkoli način.
 
 , ker je prostovoljna organizacija posameznikov, namenjena ustvarjanju različnih prostih virov spletnih informacij.  . Glede vaše uporabe in spreminjanja informacij med   ne obstaja nobena pogodba ali sporazum razen točk, določenih v  . Prav tako nihče na   ni kazensko odgovoren za spremembe ali odstranitev informacij, ki ste jih vi shranili na   ali katerokoli sorodno stran.
 Hvala za čas, ki ste si ga vzeli, da ste prebrali pojasnila na tej strani. Veliko užitkov pri uporabi enciklopedije  . 


URL: https://sk.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:Vyl%C3%BA%C4%8Denie_zodpovednosti

Content:  ~   ~  
  je otvorená internetová  , tzn. zoskupenie dobrovoľníkov, ktorí vytvárajú databázu ľudského poznania. Jej princípy dovoľujú komukoľvek s pripojením k internetu a webovým prehliadačom meniť jej obsah. Preto je treba upozorniť, že nič, čo tu nájdete, nemuselo byť skontrolované a nemusí obsahovať úplné, presné ani spoľahlivé informácie.
 To neznamená, že vo Wikipédii nemôžete nájsť hodnotné a podrobné informácie, ale je treba si uvedomiť, že Wikipédia sa nemôže žiadnym spôsobom zaručiť za presnosť informácií, ktoré uvádza. Tieto informácie mohol zmeniť či poškodiť niekto, koho názory sa nezhodujú s aktuálnym stavom znalostí v danom obore. Snažíme sa vytvoriť metódy, ako vybrať a ponúknuť najspoľahlivejšie verzie článkov. Momentálne ponúkame túto možnosť pomocou zoznamu  . Avšak aj články tu uvedené mohli byť nevhodne zmenené tesne pred tým, ako si ich pozriete.
 Pochopte prosím, že informácie tu ponúkané sú poskytované zdarma a neexistuje žiadna zmluva medzi vami a majiteľmi či používateľmi týchto stránok, vlastníkmi serverov, na ktorých Wikipédia beží, jednotlivými prispievateľmi, správcami, či akoukoľvek inou osobou spojenou s Wikipédiou.
 Uvedomte si prosím, že informácie tu uvedené môžu porušovať zákony krajiny, z ktorej si ich pozeráte. Wikipédia je proti porušovaniu zákonov, ale obsah Wikipédie je uložený na serveroch v štáte   v  , kde je právo na zverejňovanie informácií chránené Prvým dodatkom   a princípmi  . Zákony Vašej krajiny nemusia poskytovať tak širokú ochranu slobody slova, takže Wikipédia nemôže zodpovedať za prípadné porušenie príslušných zákonov.
 Ďakujeme za Váš čas strávený prečítaním tejto stránky a prajeme Vám príjemné používanie Wikipédie.


URL: https://sl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedija:Splo%C5%A1no_zanikanje_odgovornosti

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W 
  je spletna odprtovsebinska (   ) enciklopedija. To pomeni, da je prostovoljna povezava posameznikov in skupin, ki razvijajo skupen vir človeškega znanja. Njena struktura omogoča, da lahko vsak, ki ima spletno povezavo in spletni brskalnik, spreminja njeno vsebino. Zato bodite pozorni, da ni nobenega jamstva o tem, da je katerakoli od vsebin enciklopedije strokovno pregledana in potrjena s strani strokovnjakov z ustreznim znanjem na posameznem področju, kar bi omogočalo celovito, ažurno in zanesljivo informacijo o kateremkoli zapisu v enciklopediji  .
 To ne pomeni, da v enciklopediji   ne boste našli ažurnih in uporabnih informacij, vendar pa vas opozarjamo, da   na noben način   za pravilnost vsebine v enciklopediji. Mogoče je, da je bil katerikoli del vsebine pred kratkim spremenjen oziroma dopolnjen, podvržen vandalizmu ali ga je spremenil nekdo, čigar mnenje ne ustreza trenutnemu stanju strokovnega znanja na področju, glede katerega potrebujete informacijo. Trudimo se izboljšati načine izbire in odobritve zanesljivejših različic prispevkov, vendar kljub temu nikakor ne moremo jamčiti za njihovo pravilnost. Najboljši trenutni približek temu cilju so  . Vendar je možno, da so bili tudi ti članki neusmiljeno spremenjeni, tik preden ste jih začeli brati.
 Posebej vas opozarjamo, da je ponujena vsebina na razpolago brezplačno in brez kakršnihkoli omejitev. Z njeno uporabo ne nastane nikakršen pravni posel med vami in lastniki oziroma uporabniki tega spletišča, lastniki strežnikov, na katerih se spletišče nahaja, posameznimi osebami, ki so prispevale vsebino, projektnimi vodji ali administratorji, sistemskimi upravitelji ali drugimi osebami, ki so na kakršenkoli način povezane s tem ali s sestrskimi projekti. Zato od njih ne morete ničesar neposredno ali posredno zahtevati. Pravico imate reproducirati karkoli na tem spletišču, vendar pa takšno dejanje ne ustvari in tudi ne podrazumeva nobene pogodbene ali odškodninske obveznosti na strani enciklopedije   ali njenih predstavnikov, članov, organizatorjev ali drugih uporabnikov.
 Vse registrirane znamke, trgovske znamke, oblikovalske pravice, avtorske pravice ipd., ki so omenjene, uporabljene ali navedene v člankih Wikipedije, so v lasti njihovih spoštovanih lastnikov. Njihova uporaba tukaj ne pomeni, da jih lahko sami uporabljate za kakršenkoli drugačen razlog, kot iz tega ali podobnega informativnega razloga, kakor so uporabljene v originalnih Wikipedijinih člankih pod GFDL licenčno shemo. Razen, če ni drugače navedeno, nihče od nosilcev takih pravic ne podpira ali sodeluje z Wikipedijo ali Wikimedijinimi stranmi. Zato Wikipedija ne more zagotavljati pravic uporabe nobenega registriranega materiala.  
 Prosimo, zapomnite si, da je lahko vsebina, ki jo vidite tukaj, v nasprotju z zakoni območja, od koder dostopate do nje.   ne podpira kršenja zakonov. Ker so te informacije shranjene na strežniku na   v  , je vzdrževana v skladu z zaščito, zajamčeno vsem v     in načelih    . Zakoni Vaše države mogoče ne priznavajo tako široke zaščite svobodnega govora kot zakoni   ali načela Združenih narodov. Zato   ne more biti odgovorna za kršenje teh zakonov, če navedete povezave nanjo ali uporabite informacije, shranjene na teh straneh na kakršenkoli način.
 
 , ker je prostovoljna organizacija posameznikov, namenjena ustvarjanju različnih prostih virov spletnih informacij.  . Glede vaše uporabe in spreminjanja informacij med   ne obstaja nobena pogodba ali sporazum razen točk, določenih v  . Prav tako nihče na   ni kazensko odgovoren za spremembe ali odstranitev informacij, ki ste jih vi shranili na   ali katerokoli sorodno stran.
 Hvala za čas, ki ste si ga vzeli, da ste prebrali pojasnila na tej strani. Veliko užitkov pri uporabi enciklopedije  . 


URL: https://sd.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%DA%AA%D9%8A%D9%BE%D9%8A%DA%8A%D9%8A%D8%A7:%D8%B9%D8%A7%D9%85_%D8%BA%D9%8A%D8%B1%D8%AC%D9%88%D8%A7%D8%A8%D8%AF%D8%A7%D8%B1%D9%8A%D9%86%D8%A7%D9%85%D9%88

Content: 
 
 ڪوئي به تجارتي نشان،خدمتي نشان،گڏيل نشان، خاڪن يانمونن جا حق يا ساڳيئيءَ طرح جا حق جيڪي ذڪر ڪيل هجن،استعمال ياوڪي پيڊيا انسائيڪلوپيڊيا ڄاڻ چيڪلو مضمونن ۾ حوالا ڏنل هجن، سي تمام نشان سندن متعلقا مالڪن جي ملڪيت آهين.
انهين نشانن جو هتي  استعمال ٿيل هجڻ جو اهو هرگز مقصد ناهي ته ڪو اوهين پڻ انهين کي ڪنهن به مقصد لاءِ ڪُتِب آڻيو سواءِ ان جي ته اهي وڪيپيڊيا مضمونن  لائسنز اسڪيم تحت جي اصل ليکڪ جي غور و مشاهدي سان معلوماتي استعمال ۾ آندا ويا آهن. ٻئي صورت ۾ جيسيتائين  بيان ڪيل  ڪنهن به تجارتي نشاني حقن جي رکندڙسان  وڪيپيڊيا ۽ وڪي ميڊيا سائيٽس  جو نه توثيق نڪي الحاق ٿيل آهي، جيئن ته وڪيپيڊيا انهن حقن جي استعمال ڪرڻ جي اجازت نٿي ڏئي سواءِ تحفظ شدا مواد لاءِ. انهين اموري ملڪيت جي تجارتي نشاني حقن جو توهان پاران استعمال توهانجي پنهنجي جوکم تحت هوندو.
 وڪيپيڊيا  ۾ شامل مواد  زندهه شخص يا  ويجهر ۾رهلت ڪري ويل بابت ٿي سگهي ٿو. ۽ انهن زندهه يا فوت ٿيل شخصيتن جي ڇاپن يا تصويرن جو استعمال ڪنهن دائري ڪارتحت، شخصي حقن تحت محدود آهي. انهن شين کي استعمال ڪرڻ کان پهرئين اها پڪ ڪريو ته انهين جي ارادي ڪيل استعمال ڪرڻ جو توهان کي ڪو قانوني حق هجي. توهان ان ڳالهه جا اڪيلا ذميوار آهيو ۽ پڪ ڪيو ته توهان ڪنهن ٻئي جي شخصي حقن جي خلاف ورزي نه ڪيو. 
 ٿي سهگي ٿو ته وڪي پيڊيا تي لڀيل، ڇاپيل ڄاڻ جو مواد انهيءَ ملڪ ۾ قانون يا دائري اختيار  جي خلاف ورزي هجي جتان اوهان اها ڄاڻ ڏسي رهيا هجو. وڪي پيڊيا جي ڊيٽابيس  آمريڪا ۾ ڪمپيوٽر سرورز تي ذخيرو ٿيل آهي ۽  مڪاني ۽  وفاقي قانون سان مهيا ٿيل تحفظات تحت برقرار آهي.
توهانجي ملڪ جو قانون ۽ دائري ڪار شايدساڳيئي طرح جي تقرير و تقسيم جو تحفظ فراهم نه ڪندو هجي. وڪي پيڊيا ڪنهن به قسم جي قانوني خلاف ورزي کي نٿي همٿائي ۽ اهڙي ڪنهن به قانوني خلاف ورزي جي ذميدار ناهي
 جيڪڏنهن توهان کي مخصوص صلاح مشوري جي ضرورت آهي(جيئن طبي،قانوني،مالي يا وري خطر انتظامي) ته لاڳاپيل شعبي جي  ڪنهن سنديافتا ماهر سان رابطو ڪريو.


URL: https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 
  – 
  – 
  – 
  –  
 
 
 
 Wikipedia is an encyclopedia on the Internet that is edited by anyone who wants to help. The way it works means that anyone with who can view the Internet can change what is written. When you read Wikipedia, you should remember that we cannot make sure that our information is checked by people who can make it complete, accurate or reliable.
 That does not mean that there is not useful, correct information in Wikipedia; there is lots.  However,   Any article may have been changed or vandalized by someone who thinks they know what is correct, but is not aware of the current facts of the topics they are writing about.
 We are developing ways to find versions of articles which are more correct, and show them to our readers. The people who help make Wikipedia use up-to-date lists like the   and   to watch new and changing pages. However, Wikipedia is not all checked by experts. Although readers might correct errors and some experts may  , they do not have a   to make changes. So, just because we have information here, this does not mean that we think it is all true, or useful for anything you want to do with it. We are not promising you that it is correct. Before you think that something might be correct, remember that   articles might have been badly changed to be wrong just before you see them, even ones that had - before - been   by experts or chosen as  .
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC-BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or deceased recently. The use of images of living or recently deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.  
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution. Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.
 Thank you for reading this; we hope you enjoy your time at Simple English Wikipedia.
 


URL: https://ug.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 
  – 
  – 
  – 
  –  
 
 
 
 Wikipedia is an encyclopedia on the Internet that is edited by anyone who wants to help. The way it works means that anyone with who can view the Internet can change what is written. When you read Wikipedia, you should remember that we cannot make sure that our information is checked by people who can make it complete, accurate or reliable.
 That does not mean that there is not useful, correct information in Wikipedia; there is lots.  However,   Any article may have been changed or vandalized by someone who thinks they know what is correct, but is not aware of the current facts of the topics they are writing about.
 We are developing ways to find versions of articles which are more correct, and show them to our readers. The people who help make Wikipedia use up-to-date lists like the   and   to watch new and changing pages. However, Wikipedia is not all checked by experts. Although readers might correct errors and some experts may  , they do not have a   to make changes. So, just because we have information here, this does not mean that we think it is all true, or useful for anything you want to do with it. We are not promising you that it is correct. Before you think that something might be correct, remember that   articles might have been badly changed to be wrong just before you see them, even ones that had - before - been   by experts or chosen as  .
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC-BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or deceased recently. The use of images of living or recently deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.  
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution. Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.
 Thank you for reading this; we hope you enjoy your time at Simple English Wikipedia.
 


URL: https://ur.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%DB%8C%DA%A9%DB%8C%D9%BE%DB%8C%DA%88%DB%8C%D8%A7:%D8%B9%D9%85%D9%88%D9%85%DB%8C_%D8%A7%D8%B8%DB%81%D8%A7%D8%B1_%D9%84%D8%A7%D8%AA%D8%B9%D9%84%D9%82%DB%8C

Content: 
 ویکیپیڈیا کو تجارتی غرض سے استعمال میں نہ لائیں،  نہ اس تعلق سے کوئی رائے یا مشورہ تحریر کریں اور نہ ہی کوئی اشتہار دیں،  اگر کسی مضمون یا صفحہ سے یا مکمل ویکیپیڈیا کے کسی بھی اقتباس سے از خود کسی تجارتی اشیاء کی تعریف یا خوبیاں بیان ہوتی نظر آتی ہو تو انھیں مثال بنا کر پیش نہ کریں اور نہ ہی تنقید کا نشانہ بنائیں،  بلکہ اس کی اصلاح کی کوشش کریں۔
 ویکیپیڈیا پر ایسا مواد موجود ہوسکتاہے جو کسی زندہ یا حال ہی میں فوت شدہ شخصیت کے بارے میں ہو۔ زندہ یا حال ہی میں فوت شدہ شخصیات کی تصاویر کا استعمال ان کے حقوق نشر و اشاعت سے قطع نظر بعض ممالک میں قانون حقوق شخصیت کے تحت محدود و پابند ہو سکتا ہے۔
 اگر آپ کو مخصوص مشورے کی ضرورت ہے (جیسے طبی، قانونی، مالی یا پر خطر انتظامی) تو متعلقہ شعبے کے کسی سند یافتہ ماہر سے رابطہ کریں۔


URL: https://udm.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%8F:%D0%9A%D1%8B%D0%BB_%D0%BA%D1%83%D1%82%D1%8D%D0%BC%D0%BB%D1%8D%D1%81%D1%8C_%D0%BA%D1%83%D1%88%D1%82%D3%A5%D1%81%D1%8C%D0%BA%D0%BE%D0%BD

Content: Кыл кутэмлэсь куштӥськон пумысен нимысьтыз статья удмурт википедиын дасямын ӧвӧл на бере, учке вал  
 Пдсм


URL: https://uk.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D1%96%D0%BA%D1%96%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D1%96%D1%8F:%D0%92%D1%96%D0%B4%D0%BC%D0%BE%D0%B2%D0%B0_%D0%B2%D1%96%D0%B4_%D0%B2%D1%96%D0%B4%D0%BF%D0%BE%D0%B2%D1%96%D0%B4%D0%B0%D0%BB%D1%8C%D0%BD%D0%BE%D1%81%D1%82%D1%96

Content: Вікіпедія — це онлайн-енциклопедія з відкритим вмістом, яку створює спільнота; інакше кажучи, це — об'єднання на волонтерських засадах окремих осіб та груп, що працюють над створенням загального ресурсу знань людства. Структура проєкту дозволяє змінювати його вміст будь-кому, хто має доступ до інтернету. Будь ласка, майте на увазі, що ніщо з того, що можна знайти тут, не отримало формальної експертної рецензії, необхідної для надання Вам повної, точної чи достовірної інформації.
 Однак це не означає, що Ви не знайдете цінної й точної інформації у Вікіпедії; у більшості випадків інформація, розміщена у Вікіпедії, є цілком достовірною. Та втім,   Вміст будь-якої статті Вікіпедії на момент прочитання вже міг хтось змінити, такий вміст міг піддатися вандалізму, чи його міг переписати хтось, чия точка зору не відповідає поглядам, прийнятим у відповідній науковій чи іншій галузі. Зверніть увагу на те, що більшість інших енциклопедій та інших подібних джерел інформації (у тому числі й  ) теж мають відмову від відповідальності.
 Наша активна спільнота редакторів користується такими інструментами, як   та  , щоб відстежувати появу нового контенту і будь-які зміни вже наявного. Однак у Вікіпедії немає механізму рівномірної перевірки інформації; і тоді як читачі можуть виправляти помилки в статтях і навіть час від часу робити неформальні  , у них немає жодних юридичних обов'язків у цьому плані, а тому достовірність чи прийнятність для будь-якого використання інформації, опублікованої на цьому сайті, не має жодних гарантій. І навіть ті статті, які було піддано неформальному експертному рецензуванню, чи які отримали статус  , згодом хтось може відредагувати неналежним чином — навіть за секунду до того, як Ви їх переглядатимете.
 
 Будь ласка, впевніться, що Ви усвідомлюєте, що інформація, яку надає Вікіпедія, надається вільно, і що між Вами та власниками чи користувачами цього сайту, власниками серверів, на яких його розміщено, окремими дописувачами Вікіпедії, будь-якими адміністраторами проєкту чи будь-якими іншими особами,   із цим проєктом чи його сестринськими проєктами, не створюється жодної угоди чи контракту, які б давали Вам змогу висувати проти них будь-які юридичні звинувачення. Ви отримуєте обмежену ліцензію на копіювання будь-якої інформації з цього сайту; вона не створює та не передбачає можливості накладення будь-яких контрактних чи надконтрактних юридичних зобов'язань ані на Вікіпедію, ані на будь-яких її агентів, учасників, організаторів чи інших користувачів.
 Немає жодної   стосовно Вашого способу використання чи будь-яких змін інформації, розміщеної в ній, окрім умов, зазначених у ліцензіях   (CC BY-SA) та   (GFDL); також ніхто у Вікіпедії не несе жодної юридичної відповідальності за будь-яку зміну, редагування, модифікацію чи вилучення будь-якої інформації, розміщеної Вами у Вікіпедії чи в одному з пов'язаних з нею проєктів.
 Будь-які торгові знаки, знаки обслуговування, колективні знаки, права на дизайн чи подібні права, які згадуються, використовуються чи цитуються в статтях Вікіпедії, є власністю їхніх відповідних правовласників. Їхнє використання тут не означає, що Ви можете використовувати їх із будь-якою метою, яка б відрізнялася від такого ж або подібного інформаційного використання, яке мали на меті оригінальні автори відповідних статей Вікіпедії за умови дотримання схеми ліцензування через CC BY-SA та GFDL. Якщо не зазначено протилежне, сайти Вікіпедії та Вікімедіа ані не підтримуються, ані не є афілійованими з будь-якими правовласниками, а тому Вікіпедія не може надавати будь-яких прав на використання будь-яких матеріалів, захищених авторських правом. Якщо Ви використовуєте будь-які такі чи подібні об'єкти нематеріальної власності, Ви робите це виключно на свій власний ризик.
 Вікіпедія містить матеріали, які можуть зображати впізнаваних осіб — живих, чи недавно померлих. Використання зображень живих чи недавно померлих осіб у деяких юрисдикціях обмежується законами, які стосуються прав особистості і є незалежними від статусу авторських прав на зображення. Перед тим, як використовувати контент такого типу, будь ласка, переконайтесь, що Ви маєте право на його використання згідно із законами, застосовними в таких випадках використання, який Ви маєте на меті.  
 Публікація інформації, яку Ви знайшли у Вікіпедії, може порушувати закони тієї країни чи юрисдикції, з якої Ви переглядаєте цю інформацію. База даних Вікіпедії розміщена на серверах у Сполучених Штатах Америки та обслуговується з урахуванням обмежень, передбачених локальними та федеральними законами. Закони Вашої країни чи юрисдикції можуть не захищати чи не дозволяти таких способів висловлення чи поширення інформації. Вікіпедія не заохочує до порушення будь-яких законів і не може нести відповідальності за будь-які порушення таких законів, якщо Ви посилатиметесь на цей домен чи будете використовувати, відтворювати або перевидавати інформацію, яка міститься на цьому сайті.
 Якщо Вам потрібна специфічна порада (наприклад, медична, юридична, фінансова консультація або порада щодо управління ризиком), будь ласка, зверніться до професіонала, який мав би ліцензію чи достатні знання для надання відповідних послуг у потрібній галузі.
 


URL: https://sq.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Shfaj%C3%ABsimet_e_p%C3%ABrgjithshme

Content: :
 
 W  N  J  G  S   
  ështe një enciklopedi me përmbajtje të hapur, bashkëpunuese, në linjë, që nënkupton një shoqëri njerëzish e grupesh që janë duke zhvilluar një burim të përbashkët të dijes njerëzore. Ndërtimi i projektit lejon këdo me një lidhje interneti dhe World Wide Web(Rrjet Mbarë Botëror) shfletues (browser) të ndryshojë përmbajtjen e tij. Mbani parasysh se të dhënat e gjetura këtu jo domosdoshmërisht janë riparë nga persona me aftësitë e duhura për t`ju pajisur me të dhëna të plota, të sakta e të besueshme.
 Kjo nuk do të thotë se ju nuk do të gjeni të dhëna të vlefshme e të sakta Wikipedia: në më të shumtën e rasteve ju do ti gjeni. Megjithëatë,  . Përmbajtja e çdo artikulli (shkrimi) mund të jetë ndryshuar apo dëmtuar së fundmi nga persona mendimi i të cilëve nuk përkon me gjendjen e dijeve në fushat përkatëse.
 Ne punojmë për gjetjen e mënyrave për të zgjedhur dhe nxjerrë në pah versione të besueshme artikujsh. Bashkësia jonë aktive e përgatitësve (botuesve) përdor mjete të tilla si    dhe    që ndihmojnë në mbikëqyrjen e ndryshimeve të përmbajtjeve. Megjithatë,   nuk bën rishikime hulumtuese të përhershme; për sa kohë lexuesit mund të ndreqin gabimet apo merren me këtë çështje  , ata s`kanë të drejtë ligjore ta bëjnë këtë dhe kështu të gjitha të dhënat e lexuara nuk japin siguri për përdorim të dobishëm për ndonjë qëllim të caktuar apo për çfarëdo përdorimi tjetër. Madje artikujt që janë hulumtuar nga rishikime shqyrtuese e përshtatëse apo ecuritë e një   mundet që më vonë te jenë përpunuar me mangësi, pikërisht përpara se ju t`i shihni ata.
 Ju lutemi, sigurohuni të kuptoni që informacioni i afruar këtu është falas dhe që s`ka asnjë lloj ujdie (pajtese) apo kontrate që është krijuar mes jush dhe pronarëve apo përdoruesve të kësaj faqeje, pronarëve shërbyes mbi të cilët strehohet, ndihmuesve individualë të  -s, ndonjë projekt drejtuesish, administratorësh, apo cilitdo tjetër që është   me këtë projekt apo me projekte motra, u përgjigjen ankesave tuaja direkte kundër tyre. Juve u jepet një leje e kufizuar të kopjoni çdo gjë nga kjo faqe; nuk krijon apo sajon ndonjë përgjegjësi kontrate ose jashtëkontrate nga ana e  s, apo ndonjë nga agjentët, anëtarët, organizuesit ose përdorues të tjerë.
  lidhur me përdorimin apo përpilimin tuaj të këtij informacioni përtej   (GFDL); as është ndonjë në   përgjegjës nëse ndokush ndryshon, përpunon, përpilon apo heq ndonjë informacion që ju mund të vendosni në   ose ndonjë prej projekteve të shoqëruara me të.
 Seicila prej shenjave tregëtare, shenjat e shërbimit, shenjat e bashkësive, të drejtat e vizatimeve, të drejtat vetjake apo të drejta të ngjashme që janë përmendur, përdoruar apo cituar në artikujt e enciklopedisë së Wikipedias janë pronë e pronarëve të tyre përkatës. Përdorimi i tyre nuk nënkupton që ju mund t´i përdorni ato për ndonjë qëllim tjetër seç per te njëjtin ose përdorimin e ngjashëm informues, siç është paramenduar nga autorët origjinalë të atyre artikujve Wikipedianë, nën lejen e projektit GFDL. Ose e thënë ndryshe Wikipedia dhe faqet e saj nuk janë as të nënshkruara (vërtetësuara) as të anëtarësuara me ndonjë prej mbajtësve të ndonjë të drejte të tillë, dhe si e tillë   nuk mund t´ju sigurojë ndonjë të drejtë të përdorni ndonjë apo lëndë të mbrojtur.  
 Botimi i të dhënave të gjetura në   mund të jetë në kundravajtje me ligjet e vendit apo juridiksionit nga ku ju jeni duke parë këto të dhëna. Baza e të dhënave të Wikipedias ruhet në një shërbyes në Shtetin e   në   dhe mbahet duke u bazuar në mbrojtjen e dhënë nga ligjet federale vendase. Ligjet e vendit apo juridiksionit tuaj mund të mos mbrojnë apo lejojnë të njëjtat lloje të shprehjes apo shpërndarjes.   nuk nxit shkeljen e ndonjë ligji; dhe nuk mund të jetë përgjegjëse për shkelje të ndonjë ligji, nëse ju lidheni me këtë domen (zotërim) apo përdorni, riprodhoni, ose ribotoni të dhënat(njohuritë) e përmbajtura këtu.
 Nëse ju keni nevojë për këshilla të veçanta (p.sh., mbi mjekësinë, ligjin, apo menaxhimin e riskut) ju lutemi drejtojuni një profesionisti të lejuar ose të mirënjoftuar me atë fushë. Shiko  ,  , dhe   për shfajësime të veçanta.
 Ju faleminderit që morët kohën për të lexuar këtë faqe, dhe ju lutemi shijoni përdorimin tuaj të Wikipedias.
 Meqë enciklopedi të tjera, jo si Wikipedia, vëzhgohen rishqyrtueshëm profesionalisht, ato ende nuk garantojnë përmbajtjen e tyre.
 Shiko edhe:  .


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Search

Content: This page is not available in other languages.

URL: https://sa.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AA%E0%A5%80%E0%A4%A1%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%BE:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%8F:%D0%9E%D1%82%D0%BA%D0%B0%D0%B7_%D0%BE%D1%82_%D0%BE%D1%82%D0%B2%D0%B5%D1%82%D1%81%D1%82%D0%B2%D0%B5%D0%BD%D0%BD%D0%BE%D1%81%D1%82%D0%B8

Content: 
 Википедия — совместно создаваемая онлайн-энциклопедия под свободной лицензией, то есть добровольное сообщество людей и групп, создающих общее хранилище человеческих знаний. Устройство Википедии позволяет любому, кто имеет доступ в Интернет, менять её содержимое. Поэтому, пожалуйста, примите во внимание, что приведённые здесь сведения не обязательно были проверены профессионалами, обладающими знаниями, необходимыми для предоставления вам полной, точной или заслуживающей доверия информации.
 Нельзя сказать, что в Википедии не так уж много полезной и точной информации — большая часть информации такова. Однако вы должны сознавать, что  . Содержимое любой статьи могло быть недавно изменено, испорчено или искажено кем-либо, чьё мнение не соответствует состоянию знаний в соответствующей области. 
 Наше активное сообщество редакторов использует такие инструменты как страницы « » и « » для отслеживания создания и изменения содержимого. Тем не менее, Википедия не имеет равномерного рецензирования. Хотя читатели могут исправлять ошибки или участвовать в нерегулярной  , у них нет обязанности это делать, и поэтому любая информация в Википедии не содержит каких-либо подразумеваемых гарантий пригодности для каких-либо целей или применений. Даже статьи, которые были подвергнуты неформальной экспертной оценке или  , могут быть отредактированы ненадлежащим образом непосредственно перед вашим посещением.
 
 Пожалуйста, убедитесь, что вы понимаете, что вся информация, находящаяся здесь, предоставлена бесплатно, как акт доброй воли, без заключения каких-либо договорённостей или договоров между вами и владельцами или пользователями данного сайта, владельцами серверов, на которых он размещён, отдельными редакторами Википедии, администраторами проекта, системными администраторами либо кем-то ещё,   с этим или родственными проектами, кто может стать предметом прямых претензий. Вам предоставляется ограниченное право копировать содержимое этого сайта — данное право не предусматривает и не подразумевает никакой договорной или иной ответственности за любую часть Википедии или её агентов, участников, организаторов или других пользователей.
 Не существует   относительно использования или изменений информации, за пределами лицензий   (CC BY-SA) и   (GFDL). Также никто в Википедии не несёт ответственности за изменение, редактирование, модификацию или удаление любой информации, которую вы можете опубликовать в Википедии или любом из связанных с ней проектов.
 Любые торговые марки, товарные и коллективные знаки, права на дизайн или аналогичные права, которые упоминаются, используются или цитируются в статьях, принадлежат их законным владельцам. Их использование здесь не даёт вам право на любое другое использование, кроме предусмотренного авторами статей Википедии в соответствии со схемой лицензирования CC BY-SA и GFDL. Если не указано иное, Википедия и сайты Фонда Викимедиа никак не связаны с правообладателями, и поэтому Википедия не может распоряжаться правами на использование материалов, защищённых авторским правом. Вы сами несёте ответственность за использование этих и подобных материалов.
 Википедия содержит материалы, которые могут изображать человека, которого можно по ним опознать, в том числе живущего или недавно умершего. Использование изображений живых или недавно умерших людей в некоторых юрисдикциях ограничено законами, касающимися прав личности, независимо от состояния их авторских прав. Прежде чем использовать эти типы материалов, убедитесь, что у вас есть право использовать их в соответствии с законами, которые применяются в обстоятельствах вашего предполагаемого использования.  
 Обратите внимание, что распространение информации, размещённой в Википедии, может являться нарушением законов той страны, в которой вы просматриваете этот сайт. База данных Википедии хранится на серверах, расположенных в  , и поддерживается в соответствии с мерами защиты, предусмотренными местным и федеральным законодательством этой страны. Законы вашей страны или юрисдикции могут не защищать или не допускать такие же виды высказывания или распространения. Википедия не поощряет нарушение каких-либо законов и не может нести ответственности за любые потенциальные нарушения этих законов вами при публикации ссылок на этот сайт или другом использовании, воспроизведении и публикации любой содержащейся здесь информации.
 Если вам нужен совет специалиста (например, в области медицины, права, финансов или управления рисками), пожалуйста, обратитесь к профессионалам за пределами Википедии, имеющим лицензию или сертификат и знания в данной области.


URL: https://sq.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Shfaj%C3%ABsimet_e_p%C3%ABrgjithshme

Content: :
 
 W  N  J  G  S   
  ështe një enciklopedi me përmbajtje të hapur, bashkëpunuese, në linjë, që nënkupton një shoqëri njerëzish e grupesh që janë duke zhvilluar një burim të përbashkët të dijes njerëzore. Ndërtimi i projektit lejon këdo me një lidhje interneti dhe World Wide Web(Rrjet Mbarë Botëror) shfletues (browser) të ndryshojë përmbajtjen e tij. Mbani parasysh se të dhënat e gjetura këtu jo domosdoshmërisht janë riparë nga persona me aftësitë e duhura për t`ju pajisur me të dhëna të plota, të sakta e të besueshme.
 Kjo nuk do të thotë se ju nuk do të gjeni të dhëna të vlefshme e të sakta Wikipedia: në më të shumtën e rasteve ju do ti gjeni. Megjithëatë,  . Përmbajtja e çdo artikulli (shkrimi) mund të jetë ndryshuar apo dëmtuar së fundmi nga persona mendimi i të cilëve nuk përkon me gjendjen e dijeve në fushat përkatëse.
 Ne punojmë për gjetjen e mënyrave për të zgjedhur dhe nxjerrë në pah versione të besueshme artikujsh. Bashkësia jonë aktive e përgatitësve (botuesve) përdor mjete të tilla si    dhe    që ndihmojnë në mbikëqyrjen e ndryshimeve të përmbajtjeve. Megjithatë,   nuk bën rishikime hulumtuese të përhershme; për sa kohë lexuesit mund të ndreqin gabimet apo merren me këtë çështje  , ata s`kanë të drejtë ligjore ta bëjnë këtë dhe kështu të gjitha të dhënat e lexuara nuk japin siguri për përdorim të dobishëm për ndonjë qëllim të caktuar apo për çfarëdo përdorimi tjetër. Madje artikujt që janë hulumtuar nga rishikime shqyrtuese e përshtatëse apo ecuritë e një   mundet që më vonë te jenë përpunuar me mangësi, pikërisht përpara se ju t`i shihni ata.
 Ju lutemi, sigurohuni të kuptoni që informacioni i afruar këtu është falas dhe që s`ka asnjë lloj ujdie (pajtese) apo kontrate që është krijuar mes jush dhe pronarëve apo përdoruesve të kësaj faqeje, pronarëve shërbyes mbi të cilët strehohet, ndihmuesve individualë të  -s, ndonjë projekt drejtuesish, administratorësh, apo cilitdo tjetër që është   me këtë projekt apo me projekte motra, u përgjigjen ankesave tuaja direkte kundër tyre. Juve u jepet një leje e kufizuar të kopjoni çdo gjë nga kjo faqe; nuk krijon apo sajon ndonjë përgjegjësi kontrate ose jashtëkontrate nga ana e  s, apo ndonjë nga agjentët, anëtarët, organizuesit ose përdorues të tjerë.
  lidhur me përdorimin apo përpilimin tuaj të këtij informacioni përtej   (GFDL); as është ndonjë në   përgjegjës nëse ndokush ndryshon, përpunon, përpilon apo heq ndonjë informacion që ju mund të vendosni në   ose ndonjë prej projekteve të shoqëruara me të.
 Seicila prej shenjave tregëtare, shenjat e shërbimit, shenjat e bashkësive, të drejtat e vizatimeve, të drejtat vetjake apo të drejta të ngjashme që janë përmendur, përdoruar apo cituar në artikujt e enciklopedisë së Wikipedias janë pronë e pronarëve të tyre përkatës. Përdorimi i tyre nuk nënkupton që ju mund t´i përdorni ato për ndonjë qëllim tjetër seç per te njëjtin ose përdorimin e ngjashëm informues, siç është paramenduar nga autorët origjinalë të atyre artikujve Wikipedianë, nën lejen e projektit GFDL. Ose e thënë ndryshe Wikipedia dhe faqet e saj nuk janë as të nënshkruara (vërtetësuara) as të anëtarësuara me ndonjë prej mbajtësve të ndonjë të drejte të tillë, dhe si e tillë   nuk mund t´ju sigurojë ndonjë të drejtë të përdorni ndonjë apo lëndë të mbrojtur.  
 Botimi i të dhënave të gjetura në   mund të jetë në kundravajtje me ligjet e vendit apo juridiksionit nga ku ju jeni duke parë këto të dhëna. Baza e të dhënave të Wikipedias ruhet në një shërbyes në Shtetin e   në   dhe mbahet duke u bazuar në mbrojtjen e dhënë nga ligjet federale vendase. Ligjet e vendit apo juridiksionit tuaj mund të mos mbrojnë apo lejojnë të njëjtat lloje të shprehjes apo shpërndarjes.   nuk nxit shkeljen e ndonjë ligji; dhe nuk mund të jetë përgjegjëse për shkelje të ndonjë ligji, nëse ju lidheni me këtë domen (zotërim) apo përdorni, riprodhoni, ose ribotoni të dhënat(njohuritë) e përmbajtura këtu.
 Nëse ju keni nevojë për këshilla të veçanta (p.sh., mbi mjekësinë, ligjin, apo menaxhimin e riskut) ju lutemi drejtojuni një profesionisti të lejuar ose të mirënjoftuar me atë fushë. Shiko  ,  , dhe   për shfajësime të veçanta.
 Ju faleminderit që morët kohën për të lexuar këtë faqe, dhe ju lutemi shijoni përdorimin tuaj të Wikipedias.
 Meqë enciklopedi të tjera, jo si Wikipedia, vëzhgohen rishqyrtueshëm profesionalisht, ato ende nuk garantojnë përmbajtjen e tyre.
 Shiko edhe:  .


URL: https://sc.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Abbertimentos_generales

Content: 

URL: https://sm.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://si.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B7%80%E0%B7%92%E0%B6%9A%E0%B7%92%E0%B6%B4%E0%B7%93%E0%B6%A9%E0%B7%92%E0%B6%BA%E0%B7%8F:%E0%B6%B4%E0%B7%9C%E0%B6%AF%E0%B7%94_%E0%B7%80%E0%B7%92%E0%B6%BA%E0%B7%8F%E0%B6%A0%E0%B6%B1%E0%B6%BA

Content: 
 විකිපීඩියා යනු මාර්ගගත, විවෘත-අන්තර්ගත, හා  සහයෝගීත්වය මග පදනම් වූ විශ්වකෝෂයක් එනම්, මානව දැනුම පිළිබඳ පොදු සම්පතක් පිළියෙල කිරීම සඳහා නියැලෙන තනි පුද්ගලයන් හා කණ්ඩායම් වල ස්වේච්ඡා එකමුතුවකි. අන්තර්ජාල සම්බන්ධතාවයක් හිමි ඕනෑම අයෙකුට එහි අන්තර්ගතය වෙනස් කිරීමට මෙම ව්‍යාපෘතියෙහි ව්‍යුහය ඉඩ සලසයි.  මෙහි ඔබ හට හමුවන කිසිදු ‍තොරතුරක්, උචිත ප්‍රවීණතාවකින් හෙබි අයවලුන් විසින්  සමාලෝචනය කොට,  පරිපූර්ණ, නිරවද්‍ය ‍ හෝ විශ්වසනීය බවට සහතික කර නැති බව කරුණාවෙන් සලකන්න.
 විකිපීඩියාව තුළින් වටිනා හා නිරවද්‍ය තොරතුරු උකහා ගත නොහැකි බවක් මෙයින් කිසිසේත් ගම්‍ය නොවේ; බොහෝ විට එවැනි මහඟු අවස්ථා හිමි වේ.  එනමුදු,    ප්‍රස්තූත ක්ෂේත්‍රයන්හි අනුභූතිය පිළිබඳ වත්මන් ස්වභාවයට අනූරූප නොවන්නාවූ මතයන් දරන කිසියම් අයෙකු විසින්, ඕනෑම ලිපියක අන්තර්ගතය මෑතකදී වෙනස්කිරීමට,  විරූපී කිරීමට හෝ විවර්තනය කිරීමට ලක් වී තිබිය හැකිය.  
 ලිපි වල විශ්වාසනීය අනුවාදයන් තෝරා ඒවා ඉස්මතු කර පෙන්වීමේ පිළිවෙතක් අප විසින් සකස් කරමින් පවතියි.  නව හා වෙනස් වන්නාවූ අන්තර්ගතය පිළිබඳ අවධානයෙන් පසුවීම හැකි කරවන තොරතුරු  පෝෂක ලෙස, අපගේ ක්‍රියාශීලි සංස්කාරක ප්‍රජාව විසින්,    හා   වැනි මෙවලම් භාවිතා කරයි.  එනමුදු, විකිපීඩියාව සමජාතීය ලෙස, සමානයන් විසින් සමාලෝචනය කිරීමක් සිදු නොවේ; පාඨකයන් විසින් දොස් නිදොස් කළ හැකි අතර ඔවුනට අනියම් අයුරින්   සහභාගී වීමටද  හැකි නමුදු එසේ සිදු කළ යුතු බවට ඔවුන් නෛතික ලෙස බැඳී නොමැති අතර, එමනිසාම මෙහිදී කියැවීමට ලැබෙන සියලු තොරතුරු කුමක් නමුත් කාර්යයකට සුදුසු බවට ගම්‍යමාන යෝග්‍යතා වගකීමක් සහිත නොවන බව සැලකිය යුතු වේ.  අවිධිමත් ලෙස සමානයන්ගේ සමාලෝචනයට හෝ    සැකසුමෙහි කාර්යාවලියට බඳුන් වී  එතුළින් අගැයුමට භාජනය වූ  ලිපි වුවද,  ඉක්බිතිව හා ඔබ විසින් ඒවා නැරඹීමට මෙහොතකට පෙර, නුසුදුසු ලෙස සංස්කරණයට ලක් වී තිබීමට ඉඩ කඩ ඇත.
 
 මෙහි සැපයෙන තොරතුරු නිදහස් ලෙස සැපයෙන බවද, ඔබ හා මෙම අඩවියෙහි අයිතිකරුවන් හෝ පරිශීලකයන්, මෙම අඩවිය නිවසන සර්වරයෙහි හිමිකරුවන්, විකිපීඩියාවට පුද්ගලිකව දායකවන්නන්, ව්‍යාපෘති පරිපාලකවරුන්, පද්ධති-මෙහෙයවන්නන් හෝ  අතුරින් කෙනෙක්,   අතර කිසිදු බැඳුම්කරයක් හෝ ගිවිසුම් පත්‍රයක් බලපැවැත්වෙන්නේ නොමැති බවද,  මෙහි සපයා ඇති තොරතුරු නොමිලේ ලබා දෙන බවද, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extra-contractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 මෙම තොරතුරු ඔබ විසින් භාවිතය හෝ වෙනස් කිරීම් සම්බන්ධයෙන්   (GFDL)එකෙන් ඔබ්බට ගිය ගිවිසුමක් හෝ අවබෝධතාවයක් ඔබ සහ විකිපීඩියා අතර නැත; එමෙන්ම ඔබ විසින් විකිපීඩියා හි පළ කරන ඕනෑම තොරතුරක් හෝ ඊට සම්බන්ධ ඕනෑම ව්‍යාපෘතියක් කිසියම් කෙනෙක් විසින් වෙනස් කිරීම, සංස්කරණය කිරීම හෝ ඉවත් කිරීම සම්බන්ධයෙන් විකිපීඩියා හි කිසිවෙක් වගකිවයුතු නැත.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, or similar rights that are mentioned, used, or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated, Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by, nor affiliated with, any of the holders of any such rights, and as such, Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or recently-deceased. The use of images of living or recently-deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.  
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution. Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain, or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 විශේෂිත උපදෙස් ඔබ හට ඇවැසි නම් (නිදසුනක් ලෙස, වෛද්‍ය, නීතිමය, මූල්‍ය, හෝ ආපදා කළමනාකරණය) එම ක්ෂේත්‍රයෙහි වර ලත් හෝ දැනුමින් පරිපුන් වූ හෝ වෘත්තියවේදියෙකුගේ සහය පතන්න.


URL: https://si.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B7%80%E0%B7%92%E0%B6%9A%E0%B7%92%E0%B6%B4%E0%B7%93%E0%B6%A9%E0%B7%92%E0%B6%BA%E0%B7%8F:%E0%B6%B4%E0%B7%9C%E0%B6%AF%E0%B7%94_%E0%B7%80%E0%B7%92%E0%B6%BA%E0%B7%8F%E0%B6%A0%E0%B6%B1%E0%B6%BA

Content: 
 විකිපීඩියා යනු මාර්ගගත, විවෘත-අන්තර්ගත, හා  සහයෝගීත්වය මග පදනම් වූ විශ්වකෝෂයක් එනම්, මානව දැනුම පිළිබඳ පොදු සම්පතක් පිළියෙල කිරීම සඳහා නියැලෙන තනි පුද්ගලයන් හා කණ්ඩායම් වල ස්වේච්ඡා එකමුතුවකි. අන්තර්ජාල සම්බන්ධතාවයක් හිමි ඕනෑම අයෙකුට එහි අන්තර්ගතය වෙනස් කිරීමට මෙම ව්‍යාපෘතියෙහි ව්‍යුහය ඉඩ සලසයි.  මෙහි ඔබ හට හමුවන කිසිදු ‍තොරතුරක්, උචිත ප්‍රවීණතාවකින් හෙබි අයවලුන් විසින්  සමාලෝචනය කොට,  පරිපූර්ණ, නිරවද්‍ය ‍ හෝ විශ්වසනීය බවට සහතික කර නැති බව කරුණාවෙන් සලකන්න.
 විකිපීඩියාව තුළින් වටිනා හා නිරවද්‍ය තොරතුරු උකහා ගත නොහැකි බවක් මෙයින් කිසිසේත් ගම්‍ය නොවේ; බොහෝ විට එවැනි මහඟු අවස්ථා හිමි වේ.  එනමුදු,    ප්‍රස්තූත ක්ෂේත්‍රයන්හි අනුභූතිය පිළිබඳ වත්මන් ස්වභාවයට අනූරූප නොවන්නාවූ මතයන් දරන කිසියම් අයෙකු විසින්, ඕනෑම ලිපියක අන්තර්ගතය මෑතකදී වෙනස්කිරීමට,  විරූපී කිරීමට හෝ විවර්තනය කිරීමට ලක් වී තිබිය හැකිය.  
 ලිපි වල විශ්වාසනීය අනුවාදයන් තෝරා ඒවා ඉස්මතු කර පෙන්වීමේ පිළිවෙතක් අප විසින් සකස් කරමින් පවතියි.  නව හා වෙනස් වන්නාවූ අන්තර්ගතය පිළිබඳ අවධානයෙන් පසුවීම හැකි කරවන තොරතුරු  පෝෂක ලෙස, අපගේ ක්‍රියාශීලි සංස්කාරක ප්‍රජාව විසින්,    හා   වැනි මෙවලම් භාවිතා කරයි.  එනමුදු, විකිපීඩියාව සමජාතීය ලෙස, සමානයන් විසින් සමාලෝචනය කිරීමක් සිදු නොවේ; පාඨකයන් විසින් දොස් නිදොස් කළ හැකි අතර ඔවුනට අනියම් අයුරින්   සහභාගී වීමටද  හැකි නමුදු එසේ සිදු කළ යුතු බවට ඔවුන් නෛතික ලෙස බැඳී නොමැති අතර, එමනිසාම මෙහිදී කියැවීමට ලැබෙන සියලු තොරතුරු කුමක් නමුත් කාර්යයකට සුදුසු බවට ගම්‍යමාන යෝග්‍යතා වගකීමක් සහිත නොවන බව සැලකිය යුතු වේ.  අවිධිමත් ලෙස සමානයන්ගේ සමාලෝචනයට හෝ    සැකසුමෙහි කාර්යාවලියට බඳුන් වී  එතුළින් අගැයුමට භාජනය වූ  ලිපි වුවද,  ඉක්බිතිව හා ඔබ විසින් ඒවා නැරඹීමට මෙහොතකට පෙර, නුසුදුසු ලෙස සංස්කරණයට ලක් වී තිබීමට ඉඩ කඩ ඇත.
 
 මෙහි සැපයෙන තොරතුරු නිදහස් ලෙස සැපයෙන බවද, ඔබ හා මෙම අඩවියෙහි අයිතිකරුවන් හෝ පරිශීලකයන්, මෙම අඩවිය නිවසන සර්වරයෙහි හිමිකරුවන්, විකිපීඩියාවට පුද්ගලිකව දායකවන්නන්, ව්‍යාපෘති පරිපාලකවරුන්, පද්ධති-මෙහෙයවන්නන් හෝ  අතුරින් කෙනෙක්,   අතර කිසිදු බැඳුම්කරයක් හෝ ගිවිසුම් පත්‍රයක් බලපැවැත්වෙන්නේ නොමැති බවද,  මෙහි සපයා ඇති තොරතුරු නොමිලේ ලබා දෙන බවද, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extra-contractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 මෙම තොරතුරු ඔබ විසින් භාවිතය හෝ වෙනස් කිරීම් සම්බන්ධයෙන්   (GFDL)එකෙන් ඔබ්බට ගිය ගිවිසුමක් හෝ අවබෝධතාවයක් ඔබ සහ විකිපීඩියා අතර නැත; එමෙන්ම ඔබ විසින් විකිපීඩියා හි පළ කරන ඕනෑම තොරතුරක් හෝ ඊට සම්බන්ධ ඕනෑම ව්‍යාපෘතියක් කිසියම් කෙනෙක් විසින් වෙනස් කිරීම, සංස්කරණය කිරීම හෝ ඉවත් කිරීම සම්බන්ධයෙන් විකිපීඩියා හි කිසිවෙක් වගකිවයුතු නැත.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, or similar rights that are mentioned, used, or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated, Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by, nor affiliated with, any of the holders of any such rights, and as such, Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or recently-deceased. The use of images of living or recently-deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.  
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution. Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain, or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 විශේෂිත උපදෙස් ඔබ හට ඇවැසි නම් (නිදසුනක් ලෙස, වෛද්‍ය, නීතිමය, මූල්‍ය, හෝ ආපදා කළමනාකරණය) එම ක්ෂේත්‍රයෙහි වර ලත් හෝ දැනුමින් පරිපුන් වූ හෝ වෘත්තියවේදියෙකුගේ සහය පතන්න.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Featured_articles

Content:  
 
 
 Featured articles are considered to be some of the best articles Wikipedia has to offer, as determined by  . They are used by editors as examples for writing other articles. Before being listed here, articles are reviewed as   for accuracy, neutrality, completeness, and style according to our  . Many featured articles were previously   (which are reviewed with a less restrictive set of criteria).
There are   featured articles out of   articles on the English Wikipedia (about  0.1% or one out of every 1,050 articles). Articles that no longer meet the criteria can be proposed for improvement or removal at  .
 On non-mobile versions of our website, a small bronze star icon ( ) on the top right corner of an article's page indicates that the article is featured. On most smartphones and tablets you can also select "Desktop" at the very bottom of the page  or "Request Desktop Site" in your browser's menu to see this line (do a search to find out how). Additionally, if the current article is featured in another language, a yellow star will appear next to the corresponding entry in the language switcher to let you know.
  
  
 
 :
 
 Biographies are in sub-topics according to the larger topics
 
 Today's featured article:  
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
 
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
" " 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
" " –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
   –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
  –
 
  is available. See also   and  .


URL: https://sm.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://sc.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Abbertimentos_generales

Content: 

URL: https://sco.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclamation

Content: Fae the  
 This is an informational wabsteid that's ocht the   (here-efter "Wikimedia"). The content o this steid is fendit freely, an nae kynd o greement or contract is made atween you an the awners or uisers o this steid, the awners o the servers that this is hoosed on, indiveedual contreebutors tae thir pages, or project admineestrators, sysops or ony ither body adae wi this project subject tae your claims agin thaim direct. Ye are gien a leemitit license tae copy onything fae this steid; it disna mak or implee ony contractual or extracontractual liabeelity on the pairt o Wikimedia or ony o its factors, members, organizers or ither uisers.
 Ony o the treddmerks, service merks, collective merks, design richts, personality richts or sic seemilar richts that's mentiont, uised or edict on this steid is ocht thair respective awners. Unless ithergates statit, Wikimedia steids is naither endorsed bi nor affeeliate wi ony o the hauders o sic richts, nor can Wikimedia grant richts tae uise ithergates protectit maiter. Ye uise sicna incorporeal property at yer ain risk.
 Please merk that the wittins fund here micht owergae the laws o the kintra or stewartry that ye are viewin thir wittins fae. Wikipedia disna forder the owergaun o ony laws, but thir wittins is hained on a server in the State o Floridae in the Unitit States o Americae, an is mainteent in reference tae the protections affuirdit content fenders an readers in that stewartry. The laws in your kintra michna recogneeze a seemilar braid protection o free speak; Wikipedia canna be hauden tae richts for the potential owergaun o sicna laws, gin ye airt tae this domain or reuise ony o the wittins inby.


URL: https://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%8F:%D0%9E%D1%82%D0%BA%D0%B0%D0%B7_%D0%BE%D1%82_%D0%BE%D1%82%D0%B2%D0%B5%D1%82%D1%81%D1%82%D0%B2%D0%B5%D0%BD%D0%BD%D0%BE%D1%81%D1%82%D0%B8

Content: 
 Википедия — совместно создаваемая онлайн-энциклопедия под свободной лицензией, то есть добровольное сообщество людей и групп, создающих общее хранилище человеческих знаний. Устройство Википедии позволяет любому, кто имеет доступ в Интернет, менять её содержимое. Поэтому, пожалуйста, примите во внимание, что приведённые здесь сведения не обязательно были проверены профессионалами, обладающими знаниями, необходимыми для предоставления вам полной, точной или заслуживающей доверия информации.
 Нельзя сказать, что в Википедии не так уж много полезной и точной информации — большая часть информации такова. Однако вы должны сознавать, что  . Содержимое любой статьи могло быть недавно изменено, испорчено или искажено кем-либо, чьё мнение не соответствует состоянию знаний в соответствующей области. 
 Наше активное сообщество редакторов использует такие инструменты как страницы « » и « » для отслеживания создания и изменения содержимого. Тем не менее, Википедия не имеет равномерного рецензирования. Хотя читатели могут исправлять ошибки или участвовать в нерегулярной  , у них нет обязанности это делать, и поэтому любая информация в Википедии не содержит каких-либо подразумеваемых гарантий пригодности для каких-либо целей или применений. Даже статьи, которые были подвергнуты неформальной экспертной оценке или  , могут быть отредактированы ненадлежащим образом непосредственно перед вашим посещением.
 
 Пожалуйста, убедитесь, что вы понимаете, что вся информация, находящаяся здесь, предоставлена бесплатно, как акт доброй воли, без заключения каких-либо договорённостей или договоров между вами и владельцами или пользователями данного сайта, владельцами серверов, на которых он размещён, отдельными редакторами Википедии, администраторами проекта, системными администраторами либо кем-то ещё,   с этим или родственными проектами, кто может стать предметом прямых претензий. Вам предоставляется ограниченное право копировать содержимое этого сайта — данное право не предусматривает и не подразумевает никакой договорной или иной ответственности за любую часть Википедии или её агентов, участников, организаторов или других пользователей.
 Не существует   относительно использования или изменений информации, за пределами лицензий   (CC BY-SA) и   (GFDL). Также никто в Википедии не несёт ответственности за изменение, редактирование, модификацию или удаление любой информации, которую вы можете опубликовать в Википедии или любом из связанных с ней проектов.
 Любые торговые марки, товарные и коллективные знаки, права на дизайн или аналогичные права, которые упоминаются, используются или цитируются в статьях, принадлежат их законным владельцам. Их использование здесь не даёт вам право на любое другое использование, кроме предусмотренного авторами статей Википедии в соответствии со схемой лицензирования CC BY-SA и GFDL. Если не указано иное, Википедия и сайты Фонда Викимедиа никак не связаны с правообладателями, и поэтому Википедия не может распоряжаться правами на использование материалов, защищённых авторским правом. Вы сами несёте ответственность за использование этих и подобных материалов.
 Википедия содержит материалы, которые могут изображать человека, которого можно по ним опознать, в том числе живущего или недавно умершего. Использование изображений живых или недавно умерших людей в некоторых юрисдикциях ограничено законами, касающимися прав личности, независимо от состояния их авторских прав. Прежде чем использовать эти типы материалов, убедитесь, что у вас есть право использовать их в соответствии с законами, которые применяются в обстоятельствах вашего предполагаемого использования.  
 Обратите внимание, что распространение информации, размещённой в Википедии, может являться нарушением законов той страны, в которой вы просматриваете этот сайт. База данных Википедии хранится на серверах, расположенных в  , и поддерживается в соответствии с мерами защиты, предусмотренными местным и федеральным законодательством этой страны. Законы вашей страны или юрисдикции могут не защищать или не допускать такие же виды высказывания или распространения. Википедия не поощряет нарушение каких-либо законов и не может нести ответственности за любые потенциальные нарушения этих законов вами при публикации ссылок на этот сайт или другом использовании, воспроизведении и публикации любой содержащейся здесь информации.
 Если вам нужен совет специалиста (например, в области медицины, права, финансов или управления рисками), пожалуйста, обратитесь к профессионалам за пределами Википедии, имеющим лицензию или сертификат и знания в данной области.


URL: https://tk.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedi%C3%BDa:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://sa.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AA%E0%A5%80%E0%A4%A1%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%BE:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://sco.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclamation

Content: Fae the  
 This is an informational wabsteid that's ocht the   (here-efter "Wikimedia"). The content o this steid is fendit freely, an nae kynd o greement or contract is made atween you an the awners or uisers o this steid, the awners o the servers that this is hoosed on, indiveedual contreebutors tae thir pages, or project admineestrators, sysops or ony ither body adae wi this project subject tae your claims agin thaim direct. Ye are gien a leemitit license tae copy onything fae this steid; it disna mak or implee ony contractual or extracontractual liabeelity on the pairt o Wikimedia or ony o its factors, members, organizers or ither uisers.
 Ony o the treddmerks, service merks, collective merks, design richts, personality richts or sic seemilar richts that's mentiont, uised or edict on this steid is ocht thair respective awners. Unless ithergates statit, Wikimedia steids is naither endorsed bi nor affeeliate wi ony o the hauders o sic richts, nor can Wikimedia grant richts tae uise ithergates protectit maiter. Ye uise sicna incorporeal property at yer ain risk.
 Please merk that the wittins fund here micht owergae the laws o the kintra or stewartry that ye are viewin thir wittins fae. Wikipedia disna forder the owergaun o ony laws, but thir wittins is hained on a server in the State o Floridae in the Unitit States o Americae, an is mainteent in reference tae the protections affuirdit content fenders an readers in that stewartry. The laws in your kintra michna recogneeze a seemilar braid protection o free speak; Wikipedia canna be hauden tae richts for the potential owergaun o sicna laws, gin ye airt tae this domain or reuise ony o the wittins inby.


URL: https://th.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B8%A7%E0%B8%B4%E0%B8%81%E0%B8%B4%E0%B8%9E%E0%B8%B5%E0%B9%80%E0%B8%94%E0%B8%B5%E0%B8%A2:%E0%B8%82%E0%B9%89%E0%B8%AD%E0%B8%9B%E0%B8%8F%E0%B8%B4%E0%B9%80%E0%B8%AA%E0%B8%98%E0%B8%84%E0%B8%A7%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%A1%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%B1%E0%B8%9A%E0%B8%9C%E0%B8%B4%E0%B8%94%E0%B8%8A%E0%B8%AD%E0%B8%9A

Content: วิกิพีเดียเป็นสารานุกรมเนื้อหาเสรีที่เกิดจากการร่วมเขียนออนไลน์ นั่นคือ การรวมตัวโดยใจสมัครของปัจเจกบุคคลและกลุ่มทำงานเพื่อพัฒนาทรัพยากรความรู้ของมนุษย์ที่เป็นของส่วนรวม โครงสร้างของวิกิพีเดียเปิดให้ทุกคนที่เชื่อมต่ออินเทอร์เน็ตเปลี่ยนแปลงเนื้อหาได้ โปรดทราบว่าไม่จำเป็นที่เนื้อหาใด ๆ ในวิกิพีเดียนี้จะได้รับการสอบทานจากนักวิชาชีพที่มีความเชี่ยวชาญพอจะนำเสนอสารสนเทศที่ครบถ้วน แม่นยำ หรือเชื่อถือได้แก่คุณ
 ที่กล่าวมาข้างต้น มิใช่ว่าคุณไม่อาจพบสารสนเทศอันทรงคุณค่าและแม่นยำได้จากวิกิพีเดีย อย่างไรก็ดี   เพราะเนื้อหาในแต่ละบทความอาจเพิ่งถูกแก้ไข เปลี่ยนแปลง หรือทำลาย โดยบุคคลผู้มีความเห็นไม่สอดคล้องกับสถานะองค์ความรู้ปัจจุบันในสาขาที่เกี่ยวข้อง หมายเหตุว่า สารานุกรมอื่นและงานอ้างอิงส่วนใหญ่ยังมีข้อปฏิเสธความรับผิดชอบที่คล้ายกัน
 เรากำลังทำงานโดยอยู่ระหว่างการเลือกและเน้นบทความรุ่นที่น่าเชื่อถือ ผู้ใช้วิกิพีเดียได้ใช้เครื่องมือต่าง ๆ เช่น   และ   ในการสังเกตดูเนื้อหาใหม่และเนื้อหาที่มีการเปลี่ยนแปลง อย่างไรก็ตาม ข้อมูลบนวิกิพีเดียไม่ได้รับการตรวจทานเป็นระเบียบเดียวกัน แม้ผู้อ่านจะสามารถแก้ไขข้อผิดพลาดหรือมีส่วนร่วมในการตรวจทานเนื้อหาของบทความเป็นครั้งคราวได้ แต่ผู้อ่านไม่มีหน้าที่ตามกฎหมายที่ต้องปฏิบัติเช่นนั้น ฉะนั้น สารสนเทศทั้งหมดที่ปรากฏอยู่จึงไม่มีการรับรองความเหมาะสมโดยปริยายแก่ความมุ่งหมายหรือการใช้งานใด ๆ ทั้งสิ้น แม้กระทั่งบทความซึ่งผ่านการตรวจสอบอย่างไม่เป็นทางการหรือขบวนการ แล้วก็ยังอาจมีการแก้ไขอย่างไม่เหมาะสมภายหลังก่อนหน้าที่คุณมาอ่านก็เป็นได้
 
 พึงให้แน่ใจว่า คุณเข้าใจว่า สารสนเทศที่วิกิพีเดียให้บริการนี้ได้รับการจัดหามาอย่างเสรี และไม่มีการทำความตกลงหรือสัญญาใด ๆ ระหว่างคุณกับเจ้าของหรือผู้ใช้ของเว็บไซต์นี้ เจ้าของเซิร์ฟเวอร์ที่จัดเก็บวิกิพีเดีย ผู้ประพันธ์วิกิพีเดียปัจเจกบุคคล ผู้บริหารระบบ ผู้ดูแลระบบของโครงการ หรือใครก็ตามที่เกี่ยวข้องทางหนึ่งทางใดกับโครงการนี้หรือโครงการพี่น้องที่ขึ้นอยู่กับข้อเรียกร้องของคุณต่อพวกเขาโดยตรง คุณได้รับสัญญาอนุญาตที่จำกัดในการคัดลอกทุกอย่างในเว็บไซต์นี้ สัญญาอนุญาตนั้นมิได้สร้างหรือระบุความรับผิดตามสัญญาหรือนอกเหนือสัญญาในส่วนของวิกิพีเดีย หรือตัวแทน สมาชิก ผู้จัดทำหรือผู้ใช้อื่นของวิกิพีเดีย
 ต่อการใช้หรือการแก้ไขเพิ่มเติมสารสนเทศนี้ของคุณนอกเหนือไปจาก  และ    ไม่มีผู้ใดที่เกี่ยวข้องกับวิกิพีเดียต้องรับผิดชอบหากมีผู้ใดเปลี่ยนแปลง แก้ไข แก้ไขเพิ่มเติม หรือนำออกซึ่งสารสนเทศใด ๆ ที่คุณอาจโพสต์บนวิกิพีเดียหรือโครงการที่เกี่ยวข้อง
  เครื่องหมายบริการ เครื่องหมายร่วม และสิทธิในการออกแบบและสิทธิที่คล้ายกันใด ๆ ซึ่งมีการพาดพิง ใช้ หรืออ้างอิงในบทความของสารานุกรมวิกิพีเดียเป็นทรัพย์สินของเจ้าของเครื่องหมายและสิทธินั้น ๆ การใช้เครื่องหมายและสิทธิในวิกิพีเดียมิได้หมายความว่า คุณสามารถใช้เครื่องหมายและสิทธิเพื่อความมุ่งหมายอื่นนอกเหนือไปจากการใช้เชิงสารสนเทศดังเช่นผู้ประพันธ์ต้นฉบับของบทความวิกิพีเดียเหล่านี้ภายใต้แผนสัญญาอนุญาต CC-BY-SA และ GFDL เว้นแต่ระบุไว้เป็นอย่างอื่น เว็บไซต์วิกิพีเดียและวิกิมีเดียมิได้รับอนุญาตอย่างเป็นทางการจากหรือสังกัดกับผู้ถือครองสิทธิดังกล่าว ฉะนั้น วิกิพีเดียไม่อาจให้สิทธิใด ๆ ที่จะใช้ทรัพย์สินที่ได้รับการคุ้มครองได้ การใช้ทรัพย์สินที่ไม่มีรูปร่างดังกล่าวหรือที่คล้ายกันเป็นความเสี่ยงของคุณเอง
 วิกิพีเดียมีวัตถุซึ่งแสดงบุคคลที่พิสูจน์รูปพรรณได้ที่ยังมีชีวิตอยู่หรือเพิ่งเสียชีวิตไปเมื่อไม่นานมานี้ การใช้ภาพของปัจเจกบุคคลที่ยังมีชีวิตอยู่หรือเพิ่งเสียชีวิตนั้น ถูกจำกัดโดยกฎหมายเกี่ยวกับสิทธิส่วนบุคคลในบางเขตอำนาจศาล เป็นเอกเทศจากสถานะลิขสิทธิ์ ก่อนใช้เนื้อหาประเภทนี้ โปรดศึกษาให้แน่ใจว่า คุณมีสิทธิที่จะใช้วัตถุนั้นภายใต้กฎหมายซึ่งบังคับใช้ในพฤติการณ์การใช้ที่คุณเจตนา คุณรับผิดชอบแต่เพียงผู้เดียวหากคุณละเมิดสิทธิส่วนบุคคลของผู้อื่น
 การเผยแพร่สารสนเทศในวิกิพีเดียอาจละเมิดกฎหมายของประเทศหรือเขตอำนาจศาลที่คุณกำลังชมสารสนเทศนี้อยู่ ฐานข้อมูลวิกิพีเดียถูกเก็บรักษาบนเซิร์ฟเวอร์ในรัฐฟลอริดา สหรัฐอเมริกา และคงไว้ตามความคุ้มครองที่กฎหมายท้องถิ่นและของสหรัฐให้ วิกิพีเดียไม่สนับสนุนการละเมิดกฎหมายใด ๆ และไม่สามารถรับผิดชอบต่อการละเมิดกฎหมายเช่นนั้นได้ในกรณีใด ๆ หากคุณลิงก์มายังโดเมนนี้ หรือใช้ ทำซ้ำหรือเผยแพร่ซ้ำซึ่งสารสนเทศซึ่งมีอยู่ในวิกิพีเดีย
 หากคุณกำลังมองหาคำแนะนำ (เช่น ทางการแพทย์ กฎหมาย การเงิน หรือการจัดการความเสี่ยง) โปรดมองหาผู้เชี่ยวชาญซึ่งมีความรู้หรือใบอนุญาตในท้องที่ของคุณ


URL: https://sah.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%91%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B8%D1%8D%D0%B4%D1%8C%D0%B8%D0%B9%D1%8D:%D0%91%D2%AF%D0%BA_%D0%BE%D1%85%D1%81%D1%83%D0%BD%D1%83%D1%83

Content: 
 , дьон уонна дьон бөлөхтөрө түмсэн киһи-аймах билиитин мунньар  -энциклопедиялара. Бырайыак тутула ханнык баҕарар Интэриниэттээх уонна браузердаах киһи бырайыак ис хоһоонун уларытарын көҥүллүүр. Ол иһин, манна суруллубуту сорҕотун идэтийбит, билиилээх дьон көрө, тургута илик буолуон сөп, онон, бука диэн, манна барыта эҥкилэ суох итэҕэтиилээх суруллар диэн саныыр табыллыбат. 
 Бикипиэдьийэҕэ элбэх туһалаах баарын үрдүнэн, онно   өйдүөхтээххин. Ааҕар түгэҥҥэр уларытылла охсубут, алҕас киирбит эбэтэр үгүс дьон санаатын кытта сөп түбэспэт санаалаах киһи уларыппыт буолуон сөп.  
 Биһиги ыстатыйалар итэҕэтиилээх буолар суолларын куруук көрдүү турабыт, ол эрээри тугу да мэктиэлиир, эрэннэрэр кыахпыт суох. Биир ситиһиибит —  , ол гынан баран, оннооҕор ол ыстатыйалары кытта ким эрэ Эн ааҕыаҥ иннинэ аҕай уларыта охсубут буолуон сөп.
 Манна баар билии барыта аһаҕас, үтүө дьайыы быһыытынан көрдөрүллэр. Эн уонна ситим-сир бас билээччилэрин, сиэрбэр бас билээччилэрин, Бикипиэдьийэ ааптардарын, дьаһабылларын, ону тэҥэ Бикипиэдьийэни кытта   уонна атылыы бырайыактары кытта туох да ирдэбил төрүөтэ буолар сөбүлэҥэ, сөбүлэһии түһэрсиитэ суох көрдөрүллэрин, бука диэн, өйдүүргүтүгэр көрдөһөбүт. Бу ситим-сир иһинээҕитин сүһэн ылар хааччахтаах быраап Эйиэхэ бэриллэр — бу быраап Бикипиэдьийэ ханнык да сорҕото эбэтэр кини ааҕыннара, кыттааччылара, тэрийээччилэрэ уонна атын туһанааччылара эппиэтинэһи сүгэллэрин хааччыйбат. 
 Табаар, сулууспа уонна тэрилтэ ханнык баҕарар бэлиэтэ, аата, тас көстүүгэ быраап, ааптар уонна сэргэ быраап ыстатыйаҕа туһаныллар, таарыллар да буоллаҕына бас билээччилэргэ бэйэлэригэр хаалар. Манна олору туттуу   лиссиэнсийэ эрэ ирдэбилин иһинэн туһанартан атыны көҥүллээбэт. Өскөтө атын ыйыллыбатах буоллаҕына, Бикипиэдьийэ уонна Викимиэдьийэ Пуондатын ситим-сирдэрэ бас билээччилэри кытта туох да ситимнэрэ суох, онон Бикипиэдьийэ ааптар быраабынан көмүскэнэр матырыйааллары дьаһайар кыаҕа суох.  
 Болҕой, Бикипиэдьийэҕэ баары тарҕатыы уонна уларытыы эн ситим-сири көрө олорор дойдуҥ сокуонун кэһиэн сөп. Бикипиэдьийэ сокуону кэһэргэ ыҥырбат, ол эрээри, ситим-сир  -ка баар сиэрбэргэ харалла сытарынан, биһиги АХШ Сүрүн сокуонун Бастакы көннөрүүтэ уонна ХНТ Киһи быраабын биирдэһиллибит декларацията биэрбит бырааптарынан туһанабыт. Эн дойдуҥ сокуоннара тыл көҥүлүн көмүскүүрү АХШ сокуонуттан уонна ХНТ Хартиятыттан кыараҕастык көрүөхтэрин сөп, оннук түгэҥҥэ Бикипиэдьийэ ол сокуоннары Эн кэспиккэр эппиэтинэһи сүкпэт. 
 , тоҕо диэтэххэ дьон бэйэлэрин баҕатынан түмсэн үөрэтэр, култуураны сайыннарар, билиини тарҕатар соруктаах тэрийбит бөлөхтөрө буолар.   уонна билиини туһанарга биитэр уларытарга,   лиссиэнсиэҕэ суруллубатах  . Ону таһынан Бикипиэдьийэҕэ уонна кинини кытта ситимнээх бырайыактарга Эн укпутуҥ эбэтэр соппутуҥ туһуттан ким да эппиэтинэһи сүкпэт. 
 Бу сирэйи аахпыккар махталбытын тиэрдэбит. Бикипиэдьийэттэн үтүөнү эрэ буларгар баҕарабыт.


URL: https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:Aviso_geral

Content: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A   é uma enciclopédia   de conteúdo aberto, isto é, uma associação voluntária de indivíduos e grupos que estão desenvolvendo um repositório comum do conhecimento humano. Sua estrutura permite que qualquer indivíduo com uma conexão à Internet e um navegador   possa alterar o conteúdo aqui encontrado. Portanto, por favor, esteja ciente de que nenhum conteúdo aqui encontrado foi necessariamente revisado por profissionais capacitados especificamente nas áreas de conhecimento necessárias, de modo a poder providenciar informações completas, precisas e credíveis sobre qualquer assunto na Wikipédia.
 Isso não quer dizer que não encontre muitas informações precisas e valiosas na Wikipédia; no entanto, tenha clara noção de que a   Elas podem ter sido mudadas, vandalizadas ou alteradas por alguém cuja opinião não corresponda ao "estado do conhecimento" na área particular que está interessado em aprender.
 Estamos trabalhando em maneiras de selecionar e aprovar versões confiáveis dos artigos, mas ainda assim sem garantias. A Wikipédia não é revista de forma constante e uniforme; a despeito dos leitores poderem corrigir erros ou remover sugestões incorretas, eles não têm nenhuma obrigação legal de fazê-lo e, portanto, nenhuma informação encontrada aqui tem qualquer garantia de servir a qualquer uso ou propósito específico.
 
 Por favor, esteja certo de que entende que as informações aqui encontradas são disponibilizadas de forma livre e gratuita, e de que não existe qualquer acordo ou contrato entre você e os proprietários e usuários deste sítio, os proprietários dos servidores onde ele é hospedado, os contribuidores individuais da Wikipédia, qualquer administrador ou operador de sistema do projeto ou qualquer outro indivíduo que esteja de   ligado a este projeto ou projetos correlatos, pelo que não responderão diretamente a qualquer alegação contra eles. É-lhe concedida uma licença limitada para copiar qualquer coisa deste sítio, mas isso não cria nem implica nenhuma obrigação contratual ou extracontratual da parte da Wikipédia, nem de nenhum dos seus agentes, membros, organizadores ou outros usuários.
 Qualquer uma das marcas registradas ou conceitos semelhantes que envolvam direitos autorais que sejam mencionados, usados ou citados nos artigos da Wikipédia são propriedades de seus respectivos donos. O seu uso aqui não implica que você possa utilizá-los com qualquer outro propósito que não o propósito informativo do autor original desses artigos da Wikipédia, sob o sistema de licenciamento CC-BY-SA e GFDL. Salvo quando especificado em contrário, os sítios da Wikipédia e da Wikimedia não são endossados nem afiliados a nenhum dos proprietários destes direitos e como tal a Wikipédia não pode conceder direitos de uso sobre nenhum material que tenha o seu uso restrito por direitos autorais ou conceitos semelhantes.   e não há   com respeito ao uso ou modificação dessas informações além da   (CC-BY-SA) e da  ; além disso, na Wikipédia, ninguém pode ser responsabilizado se alguém editar, modificar ou remover qualquer informação que você tenha contribuído para a Wikipédia ou qualquer dos projetos correlatos. .
 Por favor, note que as informações aqui encontradas podem violar as leis do país ou jurisdição de onde as está vendo. A Wikipédia não encoraja a violação de nenhuma lei, mas como as informações estão guardadas em servidores no Estado da Flórida nos Estados Unidos da América e em outros países da Europa, elas são mantidas pelas proteções garantidas a todos os cidadãos desses países. As leis do seu país podem não reconhecer uma proteção tão ampla à liberdade de expressão quanto as leis dos Estados Unidos, da Europa ou os princípios da ONU, e, deste modo, a Wikipédia não pode ser, de nenhum modo, responsável por uma eventual violação a essas leis, se você indicar ou usar alguma das informações nela contidas.
 Se você precisar de aconselhamento específico (por exemplo: médico, legal, financeiro etc.) por favor procure um profissional legalmente habilitado ou com conhecimentos sobre o assunto. 
 A Wikipédia pode conter artigos e elementos impróprios para menores de idade e que algumas religiões, conjuntos de princípios morais ou até mesmo leis de alguns países considerem impróprios sem nenhum aviso prévio. A Wikipédia não tem nenhuma responsabilidade sobre o controle de conteúdo que você e/ou seu filho, família ou quem quer que seja possa estar acessando, portanto recomenda-se que se utilize algum software específico de controle de conteúdo caso julgue necessário.
 . 
 Obrigado por dispor do seu tempo para ler atentamente esta página e desfrute da Wikipédia.


URL: https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:Aviso_geral

Content: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A   é uma enciclopédia   de conteúdo aberto, isto é, uma associação voluntária de indivíduos e grupos que estão desenvolvendo um repositório comum do conhecimento humano. Sua estrutura permite que qualquer indivíduo com uma conexão à Internet e um navegador   possa alterar o conteúdo aqui encontrado. Portanto, por favor, esteja ciente de que nenhum conteúdo aqui encontrado foi necessariamente revisado por profissionais capacitados especificamente nas áreas de conhecimento necessárias, de modo a poder providenciar informações completas, precisas e credíveis sobre qualquer assunto na Wikipédia.
 Isso não quer dizer que não encontre muitas informações precisas e valiosas na Wikipédia; no entanto, tenha clara noção de que a   Elas podem ter sido mudadas, vandalizadas ou alteradas por alguém cuja opinião não corresponda ao "estado do conhecimento" na área particular que está interessado em aprender.
 Estamos trabalhando em maneiras de selecionar e aprovar versões confiáveis dos artigos, mas ainda assim sem garantias. A Wikipédia não é revista de forma constante e uniforme; a despeito dos leitores poderem corrigir erros ou remover sugestões incorretas, eles não têm nenhuma obrigação legal de fazê-lo e, portanto, nenhuma informação encontrada aqui tem qualquer garantia de servir a qualquer uso ou propósito específico.
 
 Por favor, esteja certo de que entende que as informações aqui encontradas são disponibilizadas de forma livre e gratuita, e de que não existe qualquer acordo ou contrato entre você e os proprietários e usuários deste sítio, os proprietários dos servidores onde ele é hospedado, os contribuidores individuais da Wikipédia, qualquer administrador ou operador de sistema do projeto ou qualquer outro indivíduo que esteja de   ligado a este projeto ou projetos correlatos, pelo que não responderão diretamente a qualquer alegação contra eles. É-lhe concedida uma licença limitada para copiar qualquer coisa deste sítio, mas isso não cria nem implica nenhuma obrigação contratual ou extracontratual da parte da Wikipédia, nem de nenhum dos seus agentes, membros, organizadores ou outros usuários.
 Qualquer uma das marcas registradas ou conceitos semelhantes que envolvam direitos autorais que sejam mencionados, usados ou citados nos artigos da Wikipédia são propriedades de seus respectivos donos. O seu uso aqui não implica que você possa utilizá-los com qualquer outro propósito que não o propósito informativo do autor original desses artigos da Wikipédia, sob o sistema de licenciamento CC-BY-SA e GFDL. Salvo quando especificado em contrário, os sítios da Wikipédia e da Wikimedia não são endossados nem afiliados a nenhum dos proprietários destes direitos e como tal a Wikipédia não pode conceder direitos de uso sobre nenhum material que tenha o seu uso restrito por direitos autorais ou conceitos semelhantes.   e não há   com respeito ao uso ou modificação dessas informações além da   (CC-BY-SA) e da  ; além disso, na Wikipédia, ninguém pode ser responsabilizado se alguém editar, modificar ou remover qualquer informação que você tenha contribuído para a Wikipédia ou qualquer dos projetos correlatos. .
 Por favor, note que as informações aqui encontradas podem violar as leis do país ou jurisdição de onde as está vendo. A Wikipédia não encoraja a violação de nenhuma lei, mas como as informações estão guardadas em servidores no Estado da Flórida nos Estados Unidos da América e em outros países da Europa, elas são mantidas pelas proteções garantidas a todos os cidadãos desses países. As leis do seu país podem não reconhecer uma proteção tão ampla à liberdade de expressão quanto as leis dos Estados Unidos, da Europa ou os princípios da ONU, e, deste modo, a Wikipédia não pode ser, de nenhum modo, responsável por uma eventual violação a essas leis, se você indicar ou usar alguma das informações nela contidas.
 Se você precisar de aconselhamento específico (por exemplo: médico, legal, financeiro etc.) por favor procure um profissional legalmente habilitado ou com conhecimentos sobre o assunto. 
 A Wikipédia pode conter artigos e elementos impróprios para menores de idade e que algumas religiões, conjuntos de princípios morais ou até mesmo leis de alguns países considerem impróprios sem nenhum aviso prévio. A Wikipédia não tem nenhuma responsabilidade sobre o controle de conteúdo que você e/ou seu filho, família ou quem quer que seja possa estar acessando, portanto recomenda-se que se utilize algum software específico de controle de conteúdo caso julgue necessário.
 . 
 Obrigado por dispor do seu tempo para ler atentamente esta página e desfrute da Wikipédia.


URL: https://pl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Korzystasz_z_Wikipedii_tylko_na_w%C5%82asn%C4%85_odpowiedzialno%C5%9B%C4%87

Content: Wikipedia jest encyklopedią sieciową tworzoną w otwartym gronie współpracowników, czyli w grupie ochotników i grup wolontariuszy, wspólnie zbierających ludzką wiedzę. Przyjęte założenia pozwalają każdej osobie dysponującej połączeniem z Internetem na zmienianie treści Wikipedii. Należy jednak zakładać, że zamieszczone w projekcie treści nie zostały przejrzane przez osoby kompetentne w poszczególnych dziedzinach wiedzy i że mogą one nie stanowić kompletnej, dokładnej czy rzetelnej informacji.
 Nie oznacza to, że w Wikipedii nie da się znaleźć wartościowych i dokładnych informacji – w wielu przypadkach Wikipedia zamieszcza materiały dobrej jakości. Wikipedia jednak  . Zawartość dowolnego hasła mogła niedawno ulec zmianom lub zniszczeniu przez osoby, których opinie nie są zbieżne z aktualnym stanem wiedzy w danej dziedzinie. Większość innych encyklopedii, co warte odnotowania, również zawiera oświadczenia podobne do niniejszego.
 Pracujemy nad tym, by przedstawiać i oznaczać wartościowe wersje haseł w Wikipedii. Aktywna społeczność współtwórców Wikipedii korzysta z różnych mechanizmów, na przykład  , czy  , w celu monitorowania pojawiających się nowych haseł oraz modyfikacji w istniejących. Wikipedia nie korzysta jednak z jakiegokolwiek formalnego systemu przeglądu treści – użytkownicy mogą poprawiać błędy i angażować się w nieformalne kręgi zainteresowań, nie są jednak do tego w żaden sposób zobligowani – zawarte więc w Wikipedii treści nie niosą z sobą zapewnienia, że są odpowiednie do jakiegokolwiek wykorzystania. Nawet artykuły, które w wyniku nieformalnego przeglądu zostały wyróżnione statusem haseł  , mogły zostać w nieodpowiedni sposób zmienione tuż przed ich wyświetleniem jednemu z czytelników.
 
 Należy pamiętać, ze prezentowane w Wikipedii treści publikowane są za darmo i że pomiędzy czytelnikiem a właścicielami i użytkownikami serwisu nie jest w wyniku czytania treści Wikipedii zawierana jakakolwiek umowa. Podobna zależność zachodzi w odniesieniu do właścicieli serwerów udostępniających treści Wikipedii, poszczególnych współredaktorów projektu, administratorów, personelu technicznego albo kogokolwiek w jakikolwiek sposób związanego z Wikipedią lub jej projektami siostrzanymi. Czytelnicy otrzymują treści na ograniczonej licencji, pozwalającej na kopiowanie prezentowanych im treści; licencja ta nie nakłada jednak na Wikipedię ani żadnego z jej współtwórców, członków, organizatorów, czy innych użytkowników żadnych zobowiązań wynikających z umowy lub od umowy niezależnych.
 Pomiędzy czytelnikiem a Wikipedią   w kwestii wykorzystywania zmodyfikowanych treści haseł wykraczająca poza ustalenia licencji   oraz  . Podobnie, nikt powiązany w jakikolwiek sposób z Wikipedią nie jest odpowiedzialny za modyfikowanie, edytowanie, czy usuwanie informacji zamieszczanych przez poszczególnych użytkowników w Wikipedii i jej projektach siostrzanych.
 Wszelkie  , usługowe, organizacyjne, prawa projektowe i inne przywołane, wykorzystywane i cytowane w hasłach Wikipedii, należą do ich właścicieli. Ich zamieszczenie na stronach Wikipedii nie oznacza, że dopuszczalne jest wykorzystywanie ich w sposób inny, niż założyli to współtwórcy artykułów Wikipedii: informacyjny i udostępniony na mocy licencji CC-BY-SA 3.0 oraz GFDL. O ile nie zaznaczono inaczej, strony projektów Wikimedia, w tym Wikipedii, nie są autoryzowane przez właścicieli praw, czy z nimi związane, więc Wikipedia nie gwarantuje wolności użytkowania tego rodzaju materiałów. Korzystasz z tego rodzaju i podobnej własności intelektualnej na własne ryzyko.
 Wikipedia zawiera materiały mogące przedstawiać wizerunki identyfikowalnych osób, które jeszcze żyją lub niedawno zmarły. W niektórych systemach prawnych wykorzystywanie wizerunków osób żyjących lub niedawno zmarłych jest regulowane prawami dotyczącymi ochrony  , niezależnie od ich statusu prawnoautorskiego. Przed wykorzystaniem zawartości tego typu należy upewnić się, czy można użyć jej zgodnie z prawem, które dotyczy warunków danego zastosowania tej zawartości.  
 Publikowanie znalezionych w Wikipedii informacji może być sprzeczne z systemem prawnym państwa, z terytorium którego przeglądana jest zawartość Wikipedii. Baza danych Wikipedii umieszczona jest na serwerach znajdujących się na terenie Stanów Zjednoczonych i prowadzona jest zgodnie z zasadami ochrony prawa lokalnego oraz federalnego tego kraju. System prawny kraju, z którego przeglądana jest zawartość Wikipedii, może nie zezwalać na taką samą wolność słowa lub rozpowszechniania informacji jak prawo amerykańskie. Wikipedia nie zachęca do naruszania żadnych przepisów prawa i nie może odpowiadać za ewentualne ich naruszenie, w przypadku gdy ktoś umieści link do jej strony, użyje, powieli lub opublikuje zawarte w niej informacje.
 Osoby chcące uzyskać poradę w określonej dziedzinie (np. medyczną, prawną, finansową czy związaną z zarządzaniem ryzykiem) powinny skonsultować się ze specjalistą w tej dziedzinie.


URL: https://sah.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%91%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B8%D1%8D%D0%B4%D1%8C%D0%B8%D0%B9%D1%8D:%D0%91%D2%AF%D0%BA_%D0%BE%D1%85%D1%81%D1%83%D0%BD%D1%83%D1%83

Content: 
 , дьон уонна дьон бөлөхтөрө түмсэн киһи-аймах билиитин мунньар  -энциклопедиялара. Бырайыак тутула ханнык баҕарар Интэриниэттээх уонна браузердаах киһи бырайыак ис хоһоонун уларытарын көҥүллүүр. Ол иһин, манна суруллубуту сорҕотун идэтийбит, билиилээх дьон көрө, тургута илик буолуон сөп, онон, бука диэн, манна барыта эҥкилэ суох итэҕэтиилээх суруллар диэн саныыр табыллыбат. 
 Бикипиэдьийэҕэ элбэх туһалаах баарын үрдүнэн, онно   өйдүөхтээххин. Ааҕар түгэҥҥэр уларытылла охсубут, алҕас киирбит эбэтэр үгүс дьон санаатын кытта сөп түбэспэт санаалаах киһи уларыппыт буолуон сөп.  
 Биһиги ыстатыйалар итэҕэтиилээх буолар суолларын куруук көрдүү турабыт, ол эрээри тугу да мэктиэлиир, эрэннэрэр кыахпыт суох. Биир ситиһиибит —  , ол гынан баран, оннооҕор ол ыстатыйалары кытта ким эрэ Эн ааҕыаҥ иннинэ аҕай уларыта охсубут буолуон сөп.
 Манна баар билии барыта аһаҕас, үтүө дьайыы быһыытынан көрдөрүллэр. Эн уонна ситим-сир бас билээччилэрин, сиэрбэр бас билээччилэрин, Бикипиэдьийэ ааптардарын, дьаһабылларын, ону тэҥэ Бикипиэдьийэни кытта   уонна атылыы бырайыактары кытта туох да ирдэбил төрүөтэ буолар сөбүлэҥэ, сөбүлэһии түһэрсиитэ суох көрдөрүллэрин, бука диэн, өйдүүргүтүгэр көрдөһөбүт. Бу ситим-сир иһинээҕитин сүһэн ылар хааччахтаах быраап Эйиэхэ бэриллэр — бу быраап Бикипиэдьийэ ханнык да сорҕото эбэтэр кини ааҕыннара, кыттааччылара, тэрийээччилэрэ уонна атын туһанааччылара эппиэтинэһи сүгэллэрин хааччыйбат. 
 Табаар, сулууспа уонна тэрилтэ ханнык баҕарар бэлиэтэ, аата, тас көстүүгэ быраап, ааптар уонна сэргэ быраап ыстатыйаҕа туһаныллар, таарыллар да буоллаҕына бас билээччилэргэ бэйэлэригэр хаалар. Манна олору туттуу   лиссиэнсийэ эрэ ирдэбилин иһинэн туһанартан атыны көҥүллээбэт. Өскөтө атын ыйыллыбатах буоллаҕына, Бикипиэдьийэ уонна Викимиэдьийэ Пуондатын ситим-сирдэрэ бас билээччилэри кытта туох да ситимнэрэ суох, онон Бикипиэдьийэ ааптар быраабынан көмүскэнэр матырыйааллары дьаһайар кыаҕа суох.  
 Болҕой, Бикипиэдьийэҕэ баары тарҕатыы уонна уларытыы эн ситим-сири көрө олорор дойдуҥ сокуонун кэһиэн сөп. Бикипиэдьийэ сокуону кэһэргэ ыҥырбат, ол эрээри, ситим-сир  -ка баар сиэрбэргэ харалла сытарынан, биһиги АХШ Сүрүн сокуонун Бастакы көннөрүүтэ уонна ХНТ Киһи быраабын биирдэһиллибит декларацията биэрбит бырааптарынан туһанабыт. Эн дойдуҥ сокуоннара тыл көҥүлүн көмүскүүрү АХШ сокуонуттан уонна ХНТ Хартиятыттан кыараҕастык көрүөхтэрин сөп, оннук түгэҥҥэ Бикипиэдьийэ ол сокуоннары Эн кэспиккэр эппиэтинэһи сүкпэт. 
 , тоҕо диэтэххэ дьон бэйэлэрин баҕатынан түмсэн үөрэтэр, култуураны сайыннарар, билиини тарҕатар соруктаах тэрийбит бөлөхтөрө буолар.   уонна билиини туһанарга биитэр уларытарга,   лиссиэнсиэҕэ суруллубатах  . Ону таһынан Бикипиэдьийэҕэ уонна кинини кытта ситимнээх бырайыактарга Эн укпутуҥ эбэтэр соппутуҥ туһуттан ким да эппиэтинэһи сүкпэт. 
 Бу сирэйи аахпыккар махталбытын тиэрдэбит. Бикипиэдьийэттэн үтүөнү эрэ буларгар баҕарабыт.


URL: https://qu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://tg.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D0%B0:%D0%A2%D0%B0%D0%BA%D0%B7%D0%B8%D0%B1%D0%BD%D0%BE%D0%BC%D0%B0%D0%B8_%D1%83%D0%BC%D1%83%D0%BC%D3%A3

Content: ,  -энциклопедия с открытым содержимым, является добровольным сообществом личностей и групп, создающих общее хранилище человеческих знаний. Её строение позволяет любому, кто имеет доступ к Интернету и  , изменять её содержание. Поэтому, пожалуйста, примите во внимание, что приведённые здесь сведения могут быть не проверенными профессионалами, обладающими знаниями в соответствующих областях, необходимыми для предоставления вам полной, точной или заслуживающей доверия информации о любом понятии в Википедии.
 Нельзя сказать, что в Википедии не так уж много полезной и точной информации, однако вы должны сознавать, что   Во время прочтения они могли быть только что изменены, испорчены, либо написаны тем, чьё мнение отличается от общепринятого в области знаний, интересующей вас.
 Мы ищем пути проверки и отбора вызывающих наибольшее доверие версий статей, но мы не можем ничего гарантировать. Наше наибольшее достижение — это  , но даже они могли быть испорчены или искажены кем-то за несколько мгновений до прочтения вами.
 Пожалуйста, примите во внимание, что вся информация, находящаяся здесь, предоставлена свободно, как акт доброй воли, без заключения каких-либо договорённостей или договоров между вами и владельцами или пользователями данного сайта, владельцами серверов, на которых он размещён, авторами Википедии, администраторами проекта, операторами либо кем-то ещё,   с этим или родственными ему проектами, которые [договоры] могут стать предметом прямых претензий. Вам предоставляется ограниченное право копировать содержимое этого сайта — данное право не предусматривает и не подразумевает никакой договорной или иной ответственности за любую часть Википедии или её агентов, участников, организаторов или других пользователей.
 Любые торговые марки, знаки и названия товаров, служб и организаций, права на  , авторские и смежные права, которые упоминаются, используются или цитируются в статьях, принадлежат их законным владельцам. Их использование здесь не даёт вам право на любое другое использование, кроме предусмотренного авторами статей Википедии в соответствии со схемой лицензирования  . Если не указано иное, Википедия и сайты Фонда Викимедиа никак не связаны с правообладателями, и поэтому Википедия не может распоряжаться правами на использование материалов, защищённых авторским правом.  
 Обратите внимание, что чтение, распространение или изменение информации, размещённой в Википедии, может являться нарушением законов той страны, в которой вы просматриваете этот сайт. Википедия не призывает к нарушению никаких законов, но так как информация сохраняется на серверах, расположенных в  , мы пользуемся правами, предоставленными всем   и принципами    . Законы вашей страны могут трактовать защиту свободы слова не так широко, как законы США или Хартия ООН — в этом случае Википедия не несёт ответственности за любые потенциальные нарушения этих законов вами при создании ссылок на этот сайт или другом использовании любой содержащейся здесь информации.
 , так как является добровольным сообществом, свободно организованным для создания открытых образовательных, культурных и информационных ресурсов.   и не существует   относительно использования или изменения информации, не предусмотренного лицензией  . Также никто в Википедии не несёт ответственности за изменение, редактирование или удаление любой информации, добавленной вами в Википедию или другие связанные с ней проекты.
 Спасибо, что потратили своё время на чтение этой страницы. Желаем вам получить только приятные впечатления от пользования Википедией.
 


URL: https://qu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://te.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B0%B5%E0%B0%BF%E0%B0%95%E0%B1%80%E0%B0%AA%E0%B1%80%E0%B0%A1%E0%B0%BF%E0%B0%AF%E0%B0%BE:%E0%B0%AE%E0%B0%AE%E0%B1%8D%E0%B0%AE%E0%B0%B2%E0%B1%8D%E0%B0%A8%E0%B0%BF_%E0%B0%95%E0%B0%B2%E0%B0%B5%E0%B0%82%E0%B0%A1%E0%B0%BF

Content:  లో వివిధ విషయాలకు సంబంధించి మమ్మల్ని కలవడం కొరకు అవసరమైన సమాచారం ఈ పేజీ లో లభిస్తుంది. 
 కొత్త వ్యాసం ఎవరైనా రాయవచ్చు. ముందుగా, దిద్దుబాటు యొక్క   తెలుసుకోవాలి.   కూడా తెలుసుకోవాలి. ఇవన్నీ తెలుసుకున్న తరువాత,   తో కొత్త పేజీని మొదలు పెట్టవచ్చు. ఇంకా సహాయం కావాలంటే,   ఉండనే ఉంది. 
 వికీపీడియా కు ఒక కొత్త వ్యాస విషయాన్ని సూచించ దలస్తే,   పేజీ లో చెయ్యవచ్చు. ఆ పేజీ లో విషయ సూచిక ఉంది, మీ సూచనను అక్కడ చేర్చవచ్చు.
 వికీపీడియా వ్యాసాలను ఎవరైనా సరిదిద్దవచ్చు. పేజీ లో తప్పు గమనిస్తే ఆ పేజీ కి పైన ఉన్న   లింకును నొక్కండి. అప్పుడు వచ్చే దిద్దుబాటు పేజీ లోని టెక్స్ట్‌ బాక్స్‌ లో తప్పును సరిదిద్దండి. దిద్దుబాట్లు చేసేటపుడు,  ను కూడా జత చేయండి. దిద్దుబాటు పై సహాయం కావాలంటే,   చదవండి. 
 వ్యాసాన్ని మెరుగు పరచడం పై చర్చించడానికి   వెళ్ళ్ళండి. వ్యాసం పేజీ కి వెళ్ళి, అక్కడ "చర్చ" ను నొక్కితే చర్చా పేజీ కి వెళ్ళవచ్చు. సభ్యులతో విడిగా మాట్లాడాలంటే, వారి   కి వెళ్ళాలి. సభ్యుని పేరును నొక్కితే, సదరు సభ్యుని పేజీ కి వెళ్తారు, అక్కడ "చర్చ" నొక్కితే, ఆ సభ్యుని చర్చా పేజీ కి వెళ్తారు. అక్కడ మీరు చేసే మార్పు చేర్పులు, ఆ సభ్యుడు లాగిన్‌ కాగానే కనిపిస్తాయి.
 వికీపీడియా లో ఎవరైనా రాయవచ్చు కాబట్టి, ఇక్కడ దుశ్చర్యలు జరగటం సహజమే. వికీపీడియా లో దుశ్చర్య అంటే, వ్యాసాన్ని చెడగొట్టే ఉద్దేశ్యంతో పనికిరాని చెత్తను పేజీల్లో పెట్టడం. మీరు ఏ పేజీ లో నైనా దుశ్చర్య ను గమనిస్తే   పాటించి, వ్యాసాన్ని పూర్వపు కూర్పుకు తీసుకొని పోవచ్చు. తరువాత కూడా ఆ సభ్యుడు అటువంటి దుశ్చర్యలు చేస్తూ ఉంటే, ఇతర సభ్యులను ఈ విషయమ్పై అప్రమత్తం చెయ్యండి. దీని కొరకు మీరు ఈ పేజీ లను చూడండి:    
 అప్పుడు, అవసరమైతే,   ఆ దుష్టుని  , సభ్యత్వాన్ని నిషేధించుతారు. 
 ఒక పేజీ ని పూర్తిగా తొలగించవలసి ఉందని మీరు భావిస్తే, పైగా అది వికీపీడియా   అనుగుణంగా ఉందని అనుకుంటే,   పేజీ లో ప్రతిపాదించండి. ఆ పేజీలో, అడుగున, తొలగింపు కొరకు ఎలా ప్రతిపాదించాలో వివరణ ఉంది. ఏదైనా పేజీని అన్యాయంగా తొలగించారని మీరు భావిస్తే,   లో మీ వాదనను వినిపించండి. 
 వికీపీడియా సభ్యుని గురించి తెలుసుకోవడానికి, ఆ సభ్యుని పేరును నొక్కండి; వారి   కి వెళ్తారు. ఏ సభ్యుని తోనైనా చర్చించాలంటే, ఆ సబ్యుని పేజీలో   ను నొక్కండి. కొంతమంది సభ్యులు వికీపీడియా ద్వారా ఈ-మెయిల్స్‌ ను అనుమతిస్తారు. అటువంటి సభ్యుని పేజీ లో, తెరకు ఎడమ అడుగు భాగంలో "E-mail this user" అనే లింకు కనిపిస్తుంది. కొంత మంది సభ్యులు ఇంకొంత సమాచారం కూడా (ఈ-మెయిల్‌, తక్షణ సందేశం, ఫోను మొదలైనవి) తమ పేజీలో ఇస్తారు. 
 చాలా మంది సభ్యులను ఒకేసారి సంప్రదించాలనుకుంటే, మీరు   లలో సభ్యత్వం తీసుకుని అక్కడ సందేశం ఇవ్వవచ్చు, లేదా   వద్ద చర్చించవచ్చు. సందేశాల సంగ్రహం నుండి పాత సందేశాలను చూడవచ్చు కూడా. 
 
 వికీపీడియా గురించిన సమాచారం కొరకు   ఒక మంచి వనరు. ప్రతీ పేజీ కి (వ్యాసం పేజీలు, విధాన పేజీలు, సభ్యుని పేజీలు) కూడా దాని చర్చా పేజీ ఉంది. ఒక విషయానికి లేదా సభ్యునికి సంబంధించిన సమాచారం కొరకు, ఈ చర్చా పేజీయే సరియైన స్థానం. 
 ఇది కాకుండా, సాధారణ ప్రశ్నలకు 4 ప్రదేశాలు ఉన్నాయి: 
 పై స్థలాల్లో మీ ప్రశ్నను అడిగిన తరువత కొన్ని రోజుల పాటు, క్రమం తప్పకుండా ఆ పేజీని సమాధానాల కొరకు చూస్తూండండి. 
 వికీమీడియా ఫౌండేషన్‌ కూ సంనంధించిన వివరాలకై (వాటి కొరకు మాత్రమే)   కు ఈ-మెయిల్‌ చెయ్యండి. 
 విలేకరులు మరియు ఇతర ఆసక్తి పరులు   ఈ-మెయిల్‌ పంపవచ్చు. మీరు ఈ జాబితాలో సభ్యులు కాకపోతే మీ ఈ-మెయిల్‌ ను నిర్వాహకుడు అనుమతించవలసి ఉంటుంది. మీరు చాలా ఈ-మెయిల్‌ లు పంపాలనుకుంటే సభ్యత్వ వివరాల కొరకు   ను చూడండి. 
 వికీపీడియన్లను సంప్రదించదలిస్తే,   మరియు   లను చూడండి. 
 మీకు పత్రికా సమాచార సేకరణ అవసరమైతే, పైగా మీరు విలేకరి  , మీరు టెర్రీ ఫూట్‌ ను +1 727 231 0101 లో సంప్రదిస్తే ఆయన మిమ్మల్ని   కు కలుపుతారు. లేదా మీరు జిమ్మీ కి సరాసరి వికీ.చొమ వద్ద ఈ-మెయిల్‌ పంపవచ్చు. ఆ ఫోనును   పత్రికా విచారణలకే వాడండి. వేరే వటికి దానిని వాడ రాదు. 
 వికీమీడియా ఫౌండేషన్‌ పత్రికా అధికారి వివరాలకై   చూడండి. 
 వికీపీడియా విధానాల పై చర్చ   వద్ద చెయ్యవచ్చు. 
 కొన్నిసార్లు దుశ్చర్యల కారణంగా   ను నిషేధించ వలసి రావచ్చు (పైన చూడండి). అయితే, ఒక్కోసారి, వేరే వాళ్ళు కూడా అదే అడ్రసును వాడుతూ ఉండవచ్చు.
 ఒకవేళ అదే మీరయితే, మీరు దిద్దుబాట్లు జరపబోయినపుడు ఎదురైన సందేశం లోని సూచనలను పాటించండి. లేదా   లోని నిర్వాహకులను సంప్రదించవచ్చు.(ఈ-మెయిల్‌ లింకు ఉన్న నిర్వాహకులకు ఈ-మెయిల్‌ పంపవచ్చు). లేదా మీ సభ్యుని చర్చా పేజీలో సందేశం పెట్టండి (సాధారణంగా మీ సభ్యుని చర్చా పేజీ పనిచేస్తూనే ఉంటుంది). 
 మీకు కాపీ హక్కు ఉన్న వ్యాసం మీ అనుమతి లేకుండా వికీపీడియా లో వాడితే   చెయ్యవచ్చు. మరింత సమాచారానికై  చూడండి. 
 కాపీ హక్కుల అతిక్రమణ అని మీరు     ఉన్న సూచనలను పాటించండి. 
 వికీపీడియా లోని వ్యాసాలను వాడుకోవడానికి అనుమతి కావాలా? ( ) ఇప్పటికే మీకా అనుమతి - వ్యాపార ప్రయోజనాల కోసం కూడా - ఇచ్చేసింది. అయితే, మీరు లైసెన్సు నిబంధనలను పాటించాలి. వివరాలకు   చూడండి.


URL: https://km.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E1%9E%9C%E1%9E%B7%E1%9E%82%E1%9E%B8%E1%9E%97%E1%9E%B8%E1%9E%8C%E1%9E%B6:%E1%9E%80%E1%9E%B6%E1%9E%9A%E1%9E%94%E1%9E%8A%E1%9E%B7%E1%9E%9F%E1%9F%81%E1%9E%92_%E1%9E%91%E1%9E%BC%E1%9E%91%E1%9F%85

Content: វិគីភីឌាជាប្រភេទសព្វវចនាធិប្បាយនៅលើបណ្តាញ​អ៊ីនធឺណិតដែលមានការចូលរួមដោយសហគមន៍អ្នកស្ម័គ្រចិត្តជាច្រើនរូប ដើម្បីចូលរួមចំនែកពង្រីក និងចែករំលែកចំនេះដឹងគ្នាទៅវិញតៅមកនៅតាមបណ្តាញអ៊ិនអឺណិត ដែលប្រភពក្នុងការអភិវឌ្ឍន៍ដ៏ចំបងសំរាប់អ្នកប្រើប្រាស់អ៊ីនធឺណិតទូទៅ។ រចនាសំព័ន្ធរបស់គំរោងនេះគឺអនុញ្ញាតអោយ​មនុស្សគ្រប់រូប​ដែលមានបណ្ដាញ​អ៊ីនធឺណិត​ធ្វើការកែប្រែខ្លឹមសារអត្ថបទនានា។ សូមកត់សំគាល់ថា អ្វីៗដែលសរសេរនៅទីនេះ​មិនប្រាកដថា​បានឆ្លងកាត់ការត្រួតពិនិត្យ​ពីអ្នកមានជំនាញត្រឹមត្រូវ ក្នុងការផ្ដល់អោយអ្នក​នូវព័ត៌មានពេញលេញ ត្រឹមត្រូវ និងអាចទុកចិត្តបាន១០០%ទេ។
 នេះមិនមែនមានន័យថា​អ្នកមិនអាចរកបានព័ត៌មាន​មានតំលៃនិងត្រឹមត្រូវសោះនោះទេ។ ភាគច្រើនអ្នកអាចរកបានព័ត៌មាន​មានតំលៃ ប៉ុន្តែ  ។ ខ្លឹមសារអត្ថបទ​ខ្លះត្រូវបានកែប្រែនាពេលថ្មីៗ បំផ្លិចបំផ្លាញ ឬប្ដូរខ្លឹមសារទាំងស្រុង​ដោយនរណាម្នាក់​ដែលមានយោបល់​ខុសពីអ្វីដែលគេសរសេរមុននោះ។
 គេហទំព័រវិគីភីឌានេះមានការធានានិងទំនួលអ្វីទាំងអស់។ អ្នកដែលជាប់ពាក់ពាន់នឹងវិបសាយនេះ(រួមទាំងអ្នកចូលរួមចំនែកទាំងឡាយ) មិនព្រមទទួលខុសត្រូវ និងសូមធ្វើការបដិសេធចំពោះរាល់ការទាមទារអោយទទួលខុសត្រូវរបស់លោកអ្នក។ សូមអ្នកមានទំនួលខុសត្រូវរាល់ការប្រើប្រាស់វិបសាយនេះ ទាំងការមើល ការរួមចំនែក ការយកខ្លឹមសារក្នុងវិបសាយនេះទៅប្រើប្រាស់។
 ​


URL: https://tcy.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B2%B5%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%95%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%AA%E0%B3%80%E0%B2%A1%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%AF:%E0%B2%B8%E0%B2%BE%E0%B2%AE%E0%B2%BE%E0%B2%A8%E0%B3%8D%E0%B2%AF%E0%B3%8A_%E0%B2%B9%E0%B2%95%E0%B3%8D%E0%B2%95%E0%B3%8D%E2%80%8C_%E0%B2%A8%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%B0%E0%B2%BE%E0%B2%95%E0%B2%B0%E0%B2%A3%E0%B3%86%E0%B2%B2%E0%B3%81

Content: Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content.  Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.  However,    The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.  Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works  .
 Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content.  However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever.  Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC-BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or deceased recently.  The use of images of living or recently deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.   
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial or risk management), please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://nds.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Impressum

Content: Anbaden warrt disse Websteed vun de  , indragen bi dat   ünner de Nummer N03000005323. De Wikimedia Foundation is en Sticht na dat Recht vun’n US-Bundsstaat  . De Verantwoortliche un Designated Agent na den Digital Millennium Copyright Act is  .
 Wenn se Fragen hebbt oder en Interview wünscht köönt se sik informell ok an de aktiven Brukers wennen, kiek dorto bi   un  .
  is ene fre’e  , de ünner de   in’t Internett ünner   to finnen is. Mehr dorto steiht in’n  .
 De as „Administraters“ optellten Brukers in de Wikipedia sünd kene offiziellen Vertreders vun’n Anbeder vun disse Websteed. Se sünd blots Brukers, de en beten mehr technische Mööglichkeiten kregen hebbt. Disse Lüüd helpt in de Regel geern un gau bi Fragen oder Problemen, sünd aver op kene Wies för disse Websteed verantwoortlich.
 Elk Bruker is för de vun em instellten Bidrääg sülvs in vullen Ümfang verantwoortlich. Utsluss vun enkelte Brukers behöllt sik de Anbeder vör.
 De Brukers sünd opropen, de Inholten, de se to disse Websteed bistüert, na best Weten to erstellen. Aver  
 De Anbeder verlööft den kommerziellen Bruuk un de Wiedergaav vun de in Wikipedia enthaltenen Daten ünner de Bedingen vun de  , kiek ok bi  .
 De Anbeder wiest op alle Sieden dorop hen, dat Material, dat ünner dat Oorheverrecht vun Drüdde steiht, nich bruukt warrn dröff. In enkelte Fäll kann dat aver vörkamen, dat en Bruker gegen dat Oorheverrecht verstött, ahn dat dat opfallt.
 Wenn de Anbeder en Henwies op so en Vörfall kriggt, denn warrt opsteeds dat Material vun’n Server nahmen. Se köönt sik över de Siet   oder över en E-Mail an de Adress   mellen, wenn se denkt, dat en Wikipedia-Siet gegen ehr Oorheverrecht verstött. Üm dat Bearbeiden vun de Anfraag fix aftosluten, is dat wichtig, de Adress vun de problemaatsche Wikipedia-Siet un den Naam vun dat Originalmaterial, vun dat kopeert worrn is, mit optoföhren.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Non-Wikipedia_disclaimers

Content: 
Reports have sometimes cited the   to support claims that Wikipedia is unreliable. Here is a selection from the disclaimers of sources which are often regarded as reliable.


URL: https://ro.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Avertisment_general

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 W  N  G  V  A  S 
  este o enciclopedie online cu conținut deschis, adică o asociație de indivizi și grupuri bazată pe voluntariat care dezvoltă împreună o resursă de cunoștințe umane. Structura sa permite oricărui individ cu o conexiune la Internet și un browser să editeze informația găsită aici. De aceea trebuie să rețineți că nimic nu este în mod necesar revizuit de profesioniști bine documentați în diverse domenii particulare, astfel încât vreo informație de pe   să devină în mod garantat completă, precisă sau demnă de încredere.
 Asta nu înseamnă că nu veți găsi multă informație de preț și precisă la  ; totuși, luați în considerare faptul că  . S-ar putea să fi fost modificată recent, vandalizată de cineva, a cărui opinie nu corespunde statutului de cunoștințe din zona particulară de care sunteți interesat(ă). Lucrăm la modalități de a alege și de a aproba cele mai de încredere articole, totuși, fără garanție. Cea mai bună listă de articole de încredere se găsește la  , dar chiar și articolele listate acolo s-ar putea să fi fost editate fără milă, cu scurt timp înainte de a le vedea dvs.
 Vă rugăm să vă asigurați că ați înțeles că informația oferită aici este liberă și gratuită și că nici un fel de înțelegere sau contract nu este creat între dvs. și proprietarii acestui sit, proprietarii serverelor pe care este găzduit acesta, contribuitorii individuali pe  , administratorii proiectului, dezvoltatorii sau oricine altcineva care este în   de acest proiect, pentru a revendica articolele în mod direct. Vă este garantată o licență limitată de a copia din acest sit; aceasta nu creează sau implică nici o răspundere contractuală sau extracontractuală din partea   sau vreunui agent, membru organizator sau alt fel de utilizator al acesteia.
 Orice mărci de fabrică, mărci de serviciu, mărci colective, drepturi de design, drepturi de personalitate sau alte drepturi similare care sunt menționate, folosite sau citate în articolele enciclopediei Wikipedia sunt proprietatea respectivilor posesori. Folosirea lor aici nu implică faptul că dvs. ați putea să le utilizați cu orice scop - altul decât unul similar, adică informațional, precum au considerat autorii originali ai acestor articole Wikipedia sub schema de licență GFDL. Dacă nu este precizat altfel, siturile Wikipedia și Wikimedia nu subscriu și nu sunt afiliate cu nici unul dintre deținătorii unor asemnea drepturi și astfel Wikipedia nu poate garanta nici un drept pentru folosirea vreunui material protejat.  
 Vă rugăm să luați în considerare faptul că informația găsită aici poate viola legile și jurisdicția țării din care dvs. accesați informația.   nu încurajează violarea nici unei legi, dar ținând cont că această informație este stocată pe un server din statul  , în  , aceasta este menținută în concordanță cu protecția oferită tuturor de către   al   și sub principiile   a  . Legile din țara dvs. s-ar putea să nu recunoască o protecție a dreptului la liberă exprimare atât de amplă ca legile Statelor Unite și principiile Cartei ONU, așadar   nu poate fi responsabilă pentru nicio violare potențială a unor asemenea legi, în cazul în care vă conectați la proiect sau folosiți orice informație din acesta, conținută în orice fel.
 , de vreme ce este o asociație de indivizi bazată pe voluntariat dezvoltată liber, pentru a crea diverse resurse educaționale, culturale și informaționale online de tip open source ( ).   și   privind folosirea și modificarea acestei informații în afara licenței  . Nimeni de la   nu este responsabil de informația pe care dvs. o trimiteți la   sau orice alt proiect (cu alte cuvinte, prin faptul că trimiteți informație în vreunul din aceste proiecte acceptați în mod implicit faptul că oricine poate să schimbe, editeze sau elimine informația respectivă).
 Utilizarea Wikipediei este supusă termenilor de utilizare definiți pe   . Pe Wikipedia se aplică doar două legislații: legislația statului California și legislația federală a Statelor Unite ale Americii. Orice litigiu juridic va fi rezolvat în San Francisco County, California. Amenințările cu plângerea penală sau darea în judecată adresate unui redactor al Wikipedia vor conduce la blocarea pe termen nedefinit. Asta nu înseamnă că Wikipedia v-ar putea priva de drepturile dvs. legale, dar veți fi blocat dacă lăsați să se înțeleagă că doriți să rezolvați conflictele cu alți redactori în mod juridic (penal și/sau civil).
 Fundația Wikimedia are statut de  , deci nu va răspunde civil sau penal pentru daunele produse de redactorii Wikipediei. Fundația Wikimedia nu se supune legislației vreunei țări europene, de aceea dreptul european este irelevant în funcționarea Wikipediei. Sigur, orice redactor are obligația să respecte legislația din statul în care se află. De exemplu, un editor polonez care scrie în engleză pe Wikipedia în timp ce se află în Pakistan are obligația de a respecta legislația pakistaneză.
 Legislația europeană în materie de drepturi de autor are relevanță pentru Wikipedia doar în măsura în care este recunoscută și aplicată de Statele Unite ale Americii. De exemplu,   de Abd-ru-shin este în domeniul public în Uniunea Europeană, dar nu și în Statele Unite ale Americii (drepturile de autor au fost restaurate în SUA de Uruguay Round Agreements Act).
 Deoarece se aplică legislația americană, wikipediștii au dreptul să aplice utilizarea cinstită ( ) în editările lor de pe Wikipedia, indiferent de ce-ar zice legislația românească în această privință. După cum am spus mai sus, wikipediștii aflați în România trebuie să respecte legislația românească (asta nu e problema Wikipediei, ci este problema lor personală).
 Administratorii Wikipediei   au obligația de a aplica legile României, este pur și simplu o problemă care nu-i privește. Există un precedent:   . Un wikipedist elvețian, care nu este supus legilor franceze, a anulat ștergerea informațiilor dispusă de serviciul secret francez.
 Un administrator silit să aleagă între respectarea principiilor impuse de Fundația Wikimedia și respectarea legislației românești trebuie să-și dea demisia, pentru a rezolva astfel acest   între datoria lui drept cetățean al României și datoria lui față de Comunitatea Wikipediei.
 Wikipedia în limba română nu este website românesc și nu are nicio obligație de a respecta legile românești.
 Mulțumim pentru că ați folosit din timpul dvs. ca să citiți acestă pagină și vă dorim să savurați experiența dvs. la  . Puteți continua turul pe ro.wiki cu  . 
 
  
•   
•   
•   
•   
•  
•   
•  
•  
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•  
•   
•   
•   
•   
•  
•  
•  
•  
•   
•   
•   
•  
•   
•   
•   
•   
•  
•   
•   
•  
•  
•  
•   


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Contributions/102.213.92.30

Content: No changes were found matching these criteria.
 This page is not available in other languages.

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Peer_review

Content: Wikipedia's   process is a feature where an editor can receive feedback from others on how to improve an article they are working on, or receive advice about a specific issue queried by the editor. The process helps users find ways for improvement that they themselves didn't pick up on. Compared to the real-world   process, where experts themselves take part in reviewing the work of another, the majority of the volunteers here, like most editors in Wikipedia, lack expertise in the subject at hand. This is a good thing—it can make   worded articles more accessible to the average reader. Those looking for expert input should consider contacting editors on the  , or contacting a relevant  .
 To  , see the  . Nominators are limited to one review at a time, and are encouraged to help reduce the backlog by commenting on other reviews. Any editor may comment on a review, and there is no requirement that any comment be acted on. Editors and nominators may both edit articles during the discussion.
 A  , with reviewers' comments included, can be found  . For easier navigation, a list of peer reviews, without the reviews themselves included, can be found  . A chronological peer reviews list can be found  . 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because...ga, agh, why not? any comments, missing info, errors, discrepancies, etcetera? thanks.
 Thanks,   ( ) 12:14, 19 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I want to eventually nominate it for GA status. It will be one step closer to achieving the Good Topic listed at  .
 Thanks,     00:09, 19 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 I've listed this article for peer review because I am debating on whether or not to bring it through the   process. I completely rewrote the article, but I am frankly unsure of the prose. I have been looking at it for so long now that I would appreciate any feedback and advice on if it is even remotely ready for a FAC. I am primarily concerned with the prose for the "Analysis" section in particular.
 I am pinging   as they were a great help for the  . I will leave this peer review open for a few months (ideally if there is enough commentary to support that amount of time) to avoid rushing anything and to make sure I give this the amount of time it needs. 
 Thank you in advance. I really do appreciate any help to better improve this article. To be clear, I would completely understand if it is determined that this would not be ready for a FAC.   ( ) 18:15, 17 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've been working on this article for a few months trying to get it as quality as possible, and I've come to sort of a standstill after scouring all the sources I could find, so I wanted to get outside voices. Ideally I want to try to get this up to GA status if possible, but I don't think it's quite ready for a GA nom yet, so I wanted to get feedback on preparing it for that.
 Thanks,   ( ) 09:20, 15 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because...GA attempt. typos, malformed ideas, anythihng that needs pointing out (besides more external sources for music ig) please do.
 Thanks,   ( ) 15:31, 13 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because it was recommended at the failed  . When it was demoted at   the review mentioned both "unattributed opinion" and "uncited text" as well as MOS concerns. Please point out any remaining problems from either of those two reviews and help me address them. I believe I have addressed the image issues.
 Thanks,     07:24, 26 October 2023 (UTC) 
 P.S. Be advised that I intend to pursue   and   for this article.--    09:41, 26 October 2023 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I has been significantly contributing this article and now, despite of the start class assignment, I'm stuck of ideas to do, I has expand every sections, remove some un-needed stuff such as list of glitches and differences between different versions. This game from the   may not have a good impact or else but I just wanted to read your ideas for this article so Thanks,   ( ) 8:10, 23 March 2024 (UTC)
 
 
This is currently at GAN, but I am also listing it here because my ultimate goal is to get this to FAC within the next couple months, and I recently learned that a pre-FAC peer review can take place at the same time as a GAN.   (he/him •   •  ) 01:03, 3 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 Requesting this peer review to seek input from readers external to   on the standard of writing in the article. Whilst I will continue to work on copyediting and concision, it would be great to seek other perspectives on how this article could be improved. I am looking to develop this article to an FA standard which is a new process for me. Thanks!   ( ) 03:43, 20 February 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
Back at peer review after this article has passed a GAN — I plan to take it to FAC later this year. However, as an inexperienced nominator at FAC, I'd sincerely appreciate some more detailed feedback regarding   compliance and the  . I look forward to hearing your comments!   ( ) 05:02, 17 February 2024 (UTC) 
 Nice.
  20:16, 18 February 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because it is the first article I have worked on significantly, and would like to improve it further, preferably to GA in the very long term. The school has historical significance due to it's age (and origination of other schools from it) and the list of student, many of which are significant to german civil society as a whole. I am particularly looking for feedback on structure and sourcing, but content feedback would also be great.
 Thanks,   ( ) 10:05, 19 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because, having spent over two years refining its prose and references and being a significant contributor, I believe that receiving suggestions to enhance the article to FA-class status would be immensely valuable. Gates played a pioneering role in the microcomputer revolution of the 1970s and 1980s. Additionally, he oversees the world's largest private charitable foundation. I look forward to collaborating with the community to enhance the article and elevate its overall quality.
 Thanks,   ( ) 15:33, 18 April 2024 (UTC) 
 Up to  :
 
 
 
This is still a bit of a work in progress, but heading towards   at some point.  If you've ever listened to a radio broadcast, the antenna that transmitted the signal was probably using a special type of transformer invented by Austin.  This article is your chance to learn about a neat bit of technology which has touched your life but you never knew existed, and about the person who invented it.
Thanks,     17:16, 15 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review to get some comments and feedback for the purpose of a Featured article review. 
Thanks,   ( ) 01:28, 14 March 2024 (UTC) 
  I recently reviewed this for GAN, so I wanted to give my thoughts here while they were fresh in my mind:
 I suggest looking at  , a recently promoted featured article about an aviation disaster, for ideas on how your article should be formatted and sourced. I hope this helps.   ( ) 02:23, 14 March 2024 (UTC) 
 I agree with   about the sources, but I'll go a bit further than he did (and my apologies in advance in this reads harshly).  This is overwhelmingly sourced to a single source (the ATSB report), and it's a   source at that.  Of the remaining sources, Johnson and Wong 404's, three others are human-interest biographies of the crew that died which say nothing about the crash which isn't just cherry-picking facts from the ATSB report.  The BBC article is a routine news report from the day of the crash.  There's zero secondary sources that go into any significant detail about the crash, leading me to wonder if this even meets   based on the sources presented.
 Aviation fire fighting is a dangerous business and sadly, crashes happen.  The aircraft involved was an aging transport plane that had been retrofitted for fire fighting, which is true of most planes used in this type of service.  They were flying low-level runs in crappy conditions; again typical of this type of operation.  The probable cause (an unrecoverable low-altitude stall due to wind shear) is also, sadly, not unusual.  What makes this crash special?  But, more importantly, other that the ATSB report and a handful of news articles which just rehash what the ATSB said, what significant coverage of this has there been?     14:24, 16 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I am looking for wider consensus on how images should be laid out in such smaller articles. Compare the   to the   - does the article need that many images to go into detail about windscreens and bus rears? A number of UK bus articles have had images shifted around or removed and replaced entirely over the past year, which has caused some contention within the UK side of  , so opinions neutral to the WikiProject would be gladly appreciated.
 Thanks,   ( ) 15:53, 18 February 2024 (UTC) 
  I'm not sure if it might be just me or something, but when I read on   at the normal 100% size, the image arrangement is, well,  . In this screenshot "The" word (pun intended) is...there, and the rest of the passage does not get seen until after the First Hampshire&Dorset picture ( ). Like I said, it might just be me, and shrinking the page to 75% for example helps, but I just felt I needed to point that out because it really does not look very good. In my opinion this needs a cleanup in terms of image placement regardless of whether it's a bus article or not.   14:30, 19 February 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because there is a lot of work to be done. The page needs rewriting and heavy editing. I would like to have some outside perspective on how to do so.
 Thanks,   ( ) 18:32, 9 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
Recently, I've considerably expanding this BLP, aiming to elevate it to GA status, especially given the significance of the individual as Pakistan's first-ever female chief minister. I've substantially expanded the political career section, but I like  to ensure that the content aligns with WP:BLP standards. I welcome any feedback or suggestions on areas that still need improvement so that I can continue to refine the article. Thank you.   ( ) 19:02, 13 March 2024 (UTC) 
 I hope this helps.   ( ) 20:22, 15 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review to insure the comprehensiveness and accuracy of this article.
 Thanks,   ( ) 17:19, 18 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
Thanks @SouthParkFan65 I think this article is close to being GA nomination worthy. I will will review it with that in mind. I have not yet gone through the sources and that will be my next step after getting to some of these writing comments. 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I simply wish to see what could be improved!  
 Cheers to all,   ( ) 05:00, 2 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 I've proposed the article for peer review with the hopes that it could potentially pass   standards. My main concern, however, is that the lead is probably too short for standards, and the article might need copyediting from a more experienced user to bring it in line with the manual of style. 
 Many thanks,   ( ) 09:32, 2 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because the article needs to be assessed and rated in relevant  
Thanks,   ( ) 15:07, 18 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
Though I do not really have ambitions for FA , your feedback will still be very much welcome, and let's treat it with the potential FA nomination in mind if some mentor wants to take it more seriously.
 The article is largely, though not uniquely, a translation of the French FA article about a seaside resort in Northern France. Of course, French FA is not transferrable to en.wiki, and I'm not aware of French FA criteria but it wouldn't pass today's en.wiki criteria, but still the article is good and I used it to make a better version of it. I reorganised it so that it reads better, and also I added a couple paragraphs missing from the French version (for example, history during WWII), and did not mention a couple of others (like the list of films in which pictures were shot in Le Touquet, as sourced to IMDb). I basically omitted the "In popular culture" and "Notable people" sections. There are a couple of unsourced sentences in the article I marked, but I am resolving these issues at   and with the author of the French article, I know it's not right, look at other stuff.
 In short, any grammar, syntax errors, maybe some omissions that I may have made, or maybe you believe some passages are clinical signs of  , or just small typos - let me know if something is wrong, I will correct it, or explain why I believe this is right.
 Thanks,   ( ) 23:26, 18 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
I'd like to know if this article has GA possibilities, and what would need to be done to make it eligible. 
Thanks,   ( ) 20:00, 18 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because   holds immense importance as the heir apparent to the British throne. His role in the monarchy is pivotal, and any information about him directly impacts the perception of the royal family.
The article provides insights into his life, upbringing, education, and public image. Understanding these aspects is crucial for readers interested in British royalty and contemporary monarchy. As the next in line for the throne, this article has immense significance. 
 The monarchy evolves, and so does Prince William’s role. An FA article remains current. FAs uphold rigorous citation standards. I hope peer reviewers will help us to verify the article's accuracy. Both I and   have been considering an FA-status for the article for long and we believe its time we initiated a peer review. Looking forward to comments from other users. 
Thanks,   ( ) and   ( ) 07:51, 31 March 2024 (UTC) 
  I'll focus on the coverage of his military service, though my comments are limited as this material looks good:
 
 
Hello there, With the aim to identify any more areas that this article needs or may be improved upon before It is nominated for a good article nomination, especially when this is my first time, I have put it up for peer review...
 Thanks,   ( ) 09:38, 25 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I plan to take a stab at a FA in a few months.
Thanks,   ( ) 14:05, 6 March 2024 (UTC) 
 The below, fairly disorganised, but with FAC in mind.
 It is evident that from an in-depth review of the infobox and lead alone, and a cursory glance at the rest of the article, that significant work is needed. Ping me if you want more comments.   ( ) 16:29, 2 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I am looking for both general and specific feedback to further improve the article after the major revisions in the past two years. My intent is to get the article into a suitable state for a GA / A-Class / FA nomination. 
 Thanks,   ( ) 23:53, 16 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I want to prepare it for FAC. This is an important article.
 Thanks,   ( ) 13:55, 15 April 2024 (UTC) 
 This is an excellent article, a note I have is that, when it says "Tigers may kill and even prey on other predators they coexist with." The sentence could potentially imply that preying on other predators is somehow more significant than killing them. That's all I have.   10:32, 21 April 2024 (UTC) 
 We want to address a few points regarding this article. Firstly, there are numerous grammatical errors. In the course of our investigation, we discovered 288 instances of ungrammatical text. For example, while being written in British English, the term "recognized" appears twice in the text. Although we would prefer not to overburden you with a list, we will gladly comply if that is what you demand. Second, there are far too many numbers in the social spacing area for any practical purpose. In all honesty, I have no idea why there are so many numbers. Please arrange things. Third, what is the purpose of including a picture of a toy in this article? Use the better photographs that are available.
 One last thing, do tigers live 26 years in the wild or in captivity? The typical lifespan should be included as well; this is crucial information. And why is "endangered" written in caps?      16:05, 22 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
I've been looking at this article and considering a Featured Article nomination soon. Before this, I'd like for this article to be peer-reviewed. Thanks! :) ~     ( ,  !) 23:05, 27 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I am thinking about taking it to FAC.
 Thanks,   (  21:02, 20 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because after cleaning up all the maintenance templates I've found that the quality is all over the place. I would like to have someone else's eyes on it to see if there are redundant sections or obvious problems that I missed; ideally, I'd like to promote this to GA in the future.
 Thanks,   18:29, 20 March 2024 (UTC) 
 I noticed this on a list of articles requesting peer review and swung by just out of curiosity. I have no subject-specific background. That said, here are a few minor suggestions:
 Best wishes with the article!
 Cheers,   ( ) 17:53, 6 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I'd like for the page to be reviewed for structure, citations, and selected works as it would normally apply to a writer / translator. I have created pages for other notable people in the past, but never for a writer. I understand with writers there may be limitless amount that could be added from books, articles, short stories, but trying to find the right amount for notability and encyclopedic content.
 ✨ Thank you in advance!,   ( ) 03:26, 9 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I'm planning to nominate it for FA. I'm mostly concerned about the grammar and the possible close paraphrasing. Thanks in advance. Best regards,   12:13, 17 February 2024 (UTC). 
 
 
I've created this article with a light overview of a few religions; however I'm no expert on religious studies and would like either additions or good sources to use for expansion into Chinese or African religions. Furthermore, the article has an example categorization of mythologies, but I am uncomfortable with it as it comes from astronomers and not from a religious studies background. If a peer reviewer knows of a similar eclipse myth categorization that comes from within the field, that would be much better to use in the article.
 Thanks,   05:50, 11 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I am having trouble distinguishing between the two sites. I would also like to hear any other general feedback.
 Thanks, —    00:21, 19 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I want other people to look at my article and see how they can improve it
 Thanks,   ( )
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I wish to get it to GA, its a level 5 vital article.
 Thanks,    21:23, 3 April 2024 (UTC) 
 —   (   •   ) 23:52, 3 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because this article underwent a copyedit and sources were added to the article. It is possible this might be a GAN one day. It wouldn't hurt if a peer review was done to evaluate the article in general.
 Thanks,   ( ) 00:47, 3 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I would love to go for my first ever Four Award, which inevitably means getting an article I created to FA status. I have gotten decent at getting my work through DYK and GA, but FA eludes me. I was wondering if I could have people critique my work the same way they would if it were at FA. 
 Thanks, —   (   •   ) 23:51, 2 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've added some information and expanded a few sections, but not all have necessary details. I aim to elevate this article to GA level and welcome input from interested editors to enhance the article. Thank you in advance for your contributions     19:31, 18 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because this is the first I created, and it looks like it could use an expert's final cuts.
 Thank you!   ( ) 11:17, 4 March 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I'm interested in taking this page through the   process so that it can be a good model for this sort of competition-based programme. I want feedback on a couple of things:
 I'm fairly confident the page is comprehensive and that everything is either sourced inline or implicitly   to the primary source (the same way we allow   without inline citations). —   ( ) 16:01, 12 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 
I've listed this article for peer review because I want to get it to FL status.
 Thanks,     13:36, 4 April 2024 (UTC) 
 
 


URL: https://tt.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%8F:%D2%96%D0%B0%D0%B2%D0%B0%D0%BF%D0%BB%D1%8B%D0%BB%D1%8B%D0%BA%D1%82%D0%B0%D0%BD_%D0%B1%D0%B0%D1%88_%D1%82%D0%B0%D1%80%D1%82%D1%83

Content:  - Википедиядә пәйдә булган мәгълүматка ышану хәвеф-хәтәрле булуы ихтималлыгы! - Википедия медицина өлкәсендә киңәшләр бирми - Википедия эчтәлеге хокукый мәсьәләләрдә дәлил буларак кулланыла алмый - Википедия эчтәлегенең кайберәүләрдә ризасызлык тудыра алуы ихтималлыгы
 В  Ү  Э  Д  Б  Т  Г  Б 
  — кешелекнең бар   туплауга багышланган ачык эчтәлекле онлайн энциклопедик ресурс;   уртак кертеме нәтиҗәсе. Проект структурасы буенча, Интернетка чыгу һәм гизгеч ярдәмендә пәрәвездәге веб-сәхифәләрне карау мөмкинлеге булган һәрбер шәхескә монда пәйда булган эчтәлекне үзгәртү мөмкинлеге бирелә. Моның аркасында, Википедиядә урын алган мәгълүмат аерым белем өлкәсе профессиональ экспертлары тарафыннан тикшерелмәгән, мәкаләләрдә урнаштырылган материалларны тема буенча тулы, дөрес һәм ышанычлы чыганак түгел дип санау дөрес. 
 дә кыйммәтле һәм дөрес мәгълүматны табып булмый дип әйтү дөрес түгел; гадәттә була. Тик   Сезне кызыксындырган материал бу өлкәдә профессиональ белемгә ия булмаган берәү тарафыннан соңгы арада алыштырылган, аңа карата вандаллык кылынган яки киресенчә үзгәртелгән булуы мөмкин. Мәкаләләребезнең ышанычлырак версияләрне тану һәм билгеләү өстендә эшлибез, тик гарантия бирә алмыйбыз. Моңа иң якыны —   процессы, тик боларга да нәкъ сезнең укуыгыз алдыннан берәүнең рәхимсез үзгәртүләр кертүе мөмкинлеген истә тоту дөрес.
 Моны укуга вакыт тапканыгызга рәхмәт.  ! 
 Мәсләкләребезнең  белдерелүе  ----  Mäsläklärebezneñ  belderelüe
   Тарихи мәсләкләр ----   Tarixi mäsläklär
   Стандартларыбызның кыска аңлатмасы  ----    
Standartlarıbıznıñ qısqa añlatması
 'ның барлык проектлар өчен  ----  'nıñ barlıq proyektlar öçen
   Википедия'ның мәсләкләре турында  башка аңлатмалар  ----    Wikipediä'nıñ mäsläkläre turında başqa añlatmalar


URL: https://ro.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Avertisment_general

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 W  N  G  V  A  S 
  este o enciclopedie online cu conținut deschis, adică o asociație de indivizi și grupuri bazată pe voluntariat care dezvoltă împreună o resursă de cunoștințe umane. Structura sa permite oricărui individ cu o conexiune la Internet și un browser să editeze informația găsită aici. De aceea trebuie să rețineți că nimic nu este în mod necesar revizuit de profesioniști bine documentați în diverse domenii particulare, astfel încât vreo informație de pe   să devină în mod garantat completă, precisă sau demnă de încredere.
 Asta nu înseamnă că nu veți găsi multă informație de preț și precisă la  ; totuși, luați în considerare faptul că  . S-ar putea să fi fost modificată recent, vandalizată de cineva, a cărui opinie nu corespunde statutului de cunoștințe din zona particulară de care sunteți interesat(ă). Lucrăm la modalități de a alege și de a aproba cele mai de încredere articole, totuși, fără garanție. Cea mai bună listă de articole de încredere se găsește la  , dar chiar și articolele listate acolo s-ar putea să fi fost editate fără milă, cu scurt timp înainte de a le vedea dvs.
 Vă rugăm să vă asigurați că ați înțeles că informația oferită aici este liberă și gratuită și că nici un fel de înțelegere sau contract nu este creat între dvs. și proprietarii acestui sit, proprietarii serverelor pe care este găzduit acesta, contribuitorii individuali pe  , administratorii proiectului, dezvoltatorii sau oricine altcineva care este în   de acest proiect, pentru a revendica articolele în mod direct. Vă este garantată o licență limitată de a copia din acest sit; aceasta nu creează sau implică nici o răspundere contractuală sau extracontractuală din partea   sau vreunui agent, membru organizator sau alt fel de utilizator al acesteia.
 Orice mărci de fabrică, mărci de serviciu, mărci colective, drepturi de design, drepturi de personalitate sau alte drepturi similare care sunt menționate, folosite sau citate în articolele enciclopediei Wikipedia sunt proprietatea respectivilor posesori. Folosirea lor aici nu implică faptul că dvs. ați putea să le utilizați cu orice scop - altul decât unul similar, adică informațional, precum au considerat autorii originali ai acestor articole Wikipedia sub schema de licență GFDL. Dacă nu este precizat altfel, siturile Wikipedia și Wikimedia nu subscriu și nu sunt afiliate cu nici unul dintre deținătorii unor asemnea drepturi și astfel Wikipedia nu poate garanta nici un drept pentru folosirea vreunui material protejat.  
 Vă rugăm să luați în considerare faptul că informația găsită aici poate viola legile și jurisdicția țării din care dvs. accesați informația.   nu încurajează violarea nici unei legi, dar ținând cont că această informație este stocată pe un server din statul  , în  , aceasta este menținută în concordanță cu protecția oferită tuturor de către   al   și sub principiile   a  . Legile din țara dvs. s-ar putea să nu recunoască o protecție a dreptului la liberă exprimare atât de amplă ca legile Statelor Unite și principiile Cartei ONU, așadar   nu poate fi responsabilă pentru nicio violare potențială a unor asemenea legi, în cazul în care vă conectați la proiect sau folosiți orice informație din acesta, conținută în orice fel.
 , de vreme ce este o asociație de indivizi bazată pe voluntariat dezvoltată liber, pentru a crea diverse resurse educaționale, culturale și informaționale online de tip open source ( ).   și   privind folosirea și modificarea acestei informații în afara licenței  . Nimeni de la   nu este responsabil de informația pe care dvs. o trimiteți la   sau orice alt proiect (cu alte cuvinte, prin faptul că trimiteți informație în vreunul din aceste proiecte acceptați în mod implicit faptul că oricine poate să schimbe, editeze sau elimine informația respectivă).
 Utilizarea Wikipediei este supusă termenilor de utilizare definiți pe   . Pe Wikipedia se aplică doar două legislații: legislația statului California și legislația federală a Statelor Unite ale Americii. Orice litigiu juridic va fi rezolvat în San Francisco County, California. Amenințările cu plângerea penală sau darea în judecată adresate unui redactor al Wikipedia vor conduce la blocarea pe termen nedefinit. Asta nu înseamnă că Wikipedia v-ar putea priva de drepturile dvs. legale, dar veți fi blocat dacă lăsați să se înțeleagă că doriți să rezolvați conflictele cu alți redactori în mod juridic (penal și/sau civil).
 Fundația Wikimedia are statut de  , deci nu va răspunde civil sau penal pentru daunele produse de redactorii Wikipediei. Fundația Wikimedia nu se supune legislației vreunei țări europene, de aceea dreptul european este irelevant în funcționarea Wikipediei. Sigur, orice redactor are obligația să respecte legislația din statul în care se află. De exemplu, un editor polonez care scrie în engleză pe Wikipedia în timp ce se află în Pakistan are obligația de a respecta legislația pakistaneză.
 Legislația europeană în materie de drepturi de autor are relevanță pentru Wikipedia doar în măsura în care este recunoscută și aplicată de Statele Unite ale Americii. De exemplu,   de Abd-ru-shin este în domeniul public în Uniunea Europeană, dar nu și în Statele Unite ale Americii (drepturile de autor au fost restaurate în SUA de Uruguay Round Agreements Act).
 Deoarece se aplică legislația americană, wikipediștii au dreptul să aplice utilizarea cinstită ( ) în editările lor de pe Wikipedia, indiferent de ce-ar zice legislația românească în această privință. După cum am spus mai sus, wikipediștii aflați în România trebuie să respecte legislația românească (asta nu e problema Wikipediei, ci este problema lor personală).
 Administratorii Wikipediei   au obligația de a aplica legile României, este pur și simplu o problemă care nu-i privește. Există un precedent:   . Un wikipedist elvețian, care nu este supus legilor franceze, a anulat ștergerea informațiilor dispusă de serviciul secret francez.
 Un administrator silit să aleagă între respectarea principiilor impuse de Fundația Wikimedia și respectarea legislației românești trebuie să-și dea demisia, pentru a rezolva astfel acest   între datoria lui drept cetățean al României și datoria lui față de Comunitatea Wikipediei.
 Wikipedia în limba română nu este website românesc și nu are nicio obligație de a respecta legile românești.
 Mulțumim pentru că ați folosit din timpul dvs. ca să citiți acestă pagină și vă dorim să savurați experiența dvs. la  . Puteți continua turul pe ro.wiki cu  . 
 
  
•   
•   
•   
•   
•  
•   
•  
•  
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•  
•   
•   
•   
•   
•  
•  
•  
•  
•   
•   
•   
•  
•   
•   
•   
•   
•  
•   
•   
•  
•  
•  
•   


URL: https://pfl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Impressum

Content: Anbieter vun derre Internetsaite isch d  , aigedrache baim   unna de Numma N03000005323. D Wikimedia Foundation isch e Stiftung noch em Recht vum US-Bunnesstaat Florida. D verantwortlich Ansprechperson un   im Sinn vum   isch zur Zait d  .
 Bai Froche kinnen Ehr aich ach an d aktive Nutza vun de Rheifränkische Wikipedia wenne, zum Baischpiel uf em  .


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:File_upload_wizard

Content: Thank you for offering to contribute an image or other media file for use on Wikipedia. This wizard will guide you through a questionnaire prompting you for the appropriate copyright and sourcing information for each file. Please ensure you understand   and the   before proceeding.
 
 Uploads to  
 
 
 Uploads locally to Wikipedia; must comply with the   criteria
 
 
 Sorry, in order to use this uploading script, JavaScript must be enabled. You can still use the plain   page to upload files to the English Wikipedia without JavaScript.
 
 Sorry, in order to use this uploading script and to upload files, you need to be logged in with your named account. Please   and then try again.
 
 Sorry, in order to upload files on the English Wikipedia, you need to have a  . Normally, your account will become confirmed automatically once you have made 10 edits and four days have passed since you created it.     
 You may already be able to upload files on the  , but you can't do it on the English Wikipedia just yet. If the file you want to upload has a free license, please go to Commons and upload it there.
  if you don't want to wait until you are autoconfirmed, you may ask somebody else to upload a file for you at  . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sorry, a few special characters and character combinations cannot be used in the filename for technical reasons. This goes especially for   and  . Your filename has been modified to avoid these. Please check if it is okay now.
 The filename you chose seems to be very short, or overly generic. Please don't use:
 
 If you upload your file with this name, you will be masking the existing file and make it inaccessible. Your new file will be displayed everywhere the existing file was previously used.
 This should not be done, except in very rare exceptional cases.
 Please don't upload your file under this name, unless you seriously know what you are doing. Choose a different name for your new file instead.
 
 If you upload your file with this name, you will be overwriting the existing file. Your new file will be displayed everywhere the existing file was previously used. Please don't do this, unless you have a good reason to:
 It is very important that you read through the following options and questions, and provide all required information truthfully and carefully. 
 Wikipedia loves free files. However, we would love it even more if you uploaded them on our sister project, the  .
Files uploaded on Commons can be used immediately here on Wikipedia as well as on all its sister projects. Uploading files on Commons works just the same as here. Your Wikipedia account will automatically work on Commons too. 
   
 However, if you prefer to do it here instead, you may go ahead with this form. You can also first use this form to collect the information about your file and then send it to Commons from here.
 Please note that by "entirely self-made" we really mean just that. 
  use this section for any of the following:
 Editors who falsely declare such items as their "own work"  .
 Use this   if there is an   in the source. 
 The website must explicitly say that the image is released under a license that allows free re-use for any purpose, e.g. the Creative Commons Attribution license. You must be able to point exactly to where it says this.
 If the source website doesn't say so explicitly, please  .
  means that nobody owns any copyrights on this work. It does   mean simply that it is freely viewable somewhere on the web or that it has been widely used by others. 
 This is   for images you simply found somewhere on the web. Most images on the web are under copyright and belong to somebody, even if you believe the owner won't care about that copyright. If it is in the public domain, you must be able to point to an actual law that makes it so. If you can't point to such a law but merely found this image somewhere, then  
  Please remember that you will need to demonstrate that:
 This file will be used in the following article:
 
    – article okay.
   
 The article   could not be found.
 Please check the spelling, and make sure you enter the name of an existing article in which you will include this file.
 If this is an article you are only planning to write, please write it first and upload the file afterwards.
   
 The page   is not in the main article namespace. Non-free files can only be used in mainspace article pages, not on a user page, talk page, template, etc.
 Please upload this file only if it is going to be used in an actual article.
 If this page is an article draft in your user space, we're sorry, but we must ask you to wait until the page is ready and has been moved into mainspace, and only upload the file after that.
   
 The page   is not a real article, but a disambiguation page pointing to a number of other pages.
 Please check and enter the exact title of the actual target article you meant.
 If neither of these two statements applies, then please  
 This section is   for images used merely to illustrate an article about a person or thing, showing what that person or thing look like.
 In view of this, please explain how the use of this file will be minimal.
 Well, we're very sorry, but if you're not sure about this file's copyright status, or if it doesn't fit into any of the groups above, then:
 
 Really, please don't. Even if you think it would make for a great addition to an article. We really take these copyright rules very seriously on Wikipedia. Note that media is   to be fully-copyrighted unless shown otherwise; the burden is on the uploader.
 In particular, please don't upload:
 If you are in any doubt, please ask some experienced editors for advice before uploading. People will be happy to assist you at  . Thank you.
 This is the data that will be submitted to upload:
 
 
 
 Your file is being uploaded. 
 This might take a minute or two, depending on the size of the file and the speed of your internet connection.
 Once uploading is completed, you will find your new file at this link:
 
 Your file has been uploaded successfully and can now be found here:
 
 Please follow the link and check that the image description page has all the information you meant to include.
 If you want to change the description, just go to the image page, click the "edit" tab at the top of the page and edit just as you would edit any other page. Do not go through this upload form again, unless you want to replace the actual file with a new version.
 To insert this file into an article, you may want to use code similar to the following:
 If you wish to make a link to the file in text, without actually showing the image, for instance when discussing the image on a talk page, you can use the following (mark the ":" after the initial brackets!):
 See   for more detailed help on how to insert and position images in pages.
 Please leave your feedback, comments, bug reports or suggestions on the  .
 


URL: https://uz.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikipediya:Mas%CA%BCuliyatdan_voz_kechish

Content:  — bu  - , yaʼni undagi maʼlumotlarni internetga ulangan  . Shuni nazarda tutingki, bu yerda joylashtirilgan maʼlumotlar aniq va ishonchli ekanligiga kafolat berilmaydi, chunki ular soha mutaxassislari tomonidan tekshirib chiqilmagan boʻlishi mumkin.
 Vikipediyaga aloqador boʻlgan hech bir shaxs lohiya sahifalarida xato yoki yolgʻon maʼlumotlar paydo boʻlmasligiga masʼul emas.
 Agar sizga tibbiyot, huquqshunoslik, moliya sohalari boʻyicha mutaxassis maslahati kerak boʻlsa, iltimos, tegishli litsenziya va bilimga ega professionallarga murojaat qiling.


URL: https://ta.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%AE%B5%E0%AE%BF%E0%AE%95%E0%AF%8D%E0%AE%95%E0%AE%BF%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%8D%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%80%E0%AE%9F%E0%AE%BF%E0%AE%AF%E0%AE%BE:%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%8A%E0%AE%A4%E0%AF%81%E0%AE%B5%E0%AE%BE%E0%AE%A9_%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%8A%E0%AE%B1%E0%AF%81%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%8D%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%81%E0%AE%A4%E0%AF%8D_%E0%AE%A4%E0%AF%81%E0%AE%B1%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%8D%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%81%E0%AE%95%E0%AE%B3%E0%AF%8D

Content: 
  –   –   –   –  
 
வி  செ  எ  உ  ஏ 
 
  ஒரு இணைய திறந்த-உள்ளடக்க ஒருங்கிணைந்த கலைக்களஞ்சியம் ஆகும். அதாவது, தனிநபர்கள் மற்றும் குழுக்களின் ஒரு தன்னார்வ அமைப்பு, மனித அறிவின் ஒரு பொதுவான வள ஆதாரங்களை வளர்ப்பவர்கள் ஆகும். இந்த திட்டத்தின் கட்டமைப்பானது, இணைய இணைப்பு மற்றும் உலகளாவிய வலை உலாவி உடைய அனைவரும் அதன் உள்ளடக்கத்தை மாற்ற அனுமதிக்கிறது. இங்கே காணப்படும் எந்தத் தகவலும் முழுமையான, ​​துல்லியமான அல்லது நம்பகமான தகவல்களாக நீங்கள் பெறுவதற்க்கு தேவையான நிபுணர்களின் மறு ஆய்வுக்கு உட்படுத்தப்படவில்லை.
 அதாவது நீங்கள்   மதிப்புமிக்க மற்றும் துல்லியமான தகவல்களை காண முடியாது என்று சொல்வதற்க்கில்லை; பல நேரங்களில் உங்களால் அது முடியும். எனினும்,   எந்தவொரு கட்டுரையின் உள்ளடக்கமும் யாராலோ சமீபத்தில் மாற்றப்பட்டு, அழிக்கப்பட்டு அல்லது மாற்றியமைக்கப்பட்டிருக்கலாம்.
 நாம் கட்டுரைகளின் நம்பகமான பதிப்புகளின் தேர்வு மற்றும் முன்னிலைப்படுத்தும் வழிகளில் ஈடுபடுகின்றோம். நமது இயக்கத்தில் சமூக பதிப்பாசிரியர்கள்   மற்றும்   போன்ற ஓடைகளை, புதிய மற்றும் மாறும் உள்ளடக்கத்தை கண்காணிக்க பயன்படுத்துகின்றனர். எனினும்,   முறையான மறுபார்வை இல்லை; வாசகர்கள் பிழைகளை சரிசெய்யும் போதோ அல்லது சாதாரண மறுபார்வையில் ஈடுபடும் போதோ, அவர்கள் அவ்வாறு செய்வதற்கு எந்த சட்ட கடமை கிடையாது. இதனால் இங்கே படிக்கும் அனைத்து தகவல்களும் எவ்வித மறைமுக உறுதியான காப்புறுதிகளும் இல்லாமல் உள்ளது. இருப்பினும் கட்டுரைகள் என்றும் முறைசாரா மறுபார்வை மூலம் அல்லது   மூலம் மதிப்பிடப்படுகிறது. நீங்கள் அவற்றை பார்வையிடும் முன்பு பொருத்தமற்ற செயல்பாடுகள் பின்னர் திருத்தப்பட இருக்கலாம்.
 ஒப்பந்தம் இல்லை; வரையறுக்கப்பட்ட உரிமம்
இங்கே வழங்கப்பட்ட தகவல்கள் இலவசமாக வழங்கப்படுகின்றன என்பதை நீங்கள் புரிந்து கொள்ளுதல் வேண்டும், மற்றும் உங்களுக்கும், இந்த தளத்தின் உரிமையாளர்களுக்கோ அல்லது பயனர்களுக்கோ எந்தவித ஒப்பந்தமும் இல்லை, தனிப்பட்ட விக்கிபீடியா பங்களிப்பாளர்கள், எந்த திட்ட நிர்வாகிகள் அல்லது யாராவது நேரடியாக அவர்களுக்கு எதிராக உங்கள் கூற்றுக்கள் இந்த திட்டம் அல்லது சகோதர திட்டங்கள் தொடர்புடைய எந்த வழியில் யார் இந்த தளத்திலிருந்து எதையும் நகலெடுக்க உங்களுக்கு ஒரு வரையறுக்கப்பட்ட உரிமம் வழங்கப்பட்டுள்ளது; அது விக்கிப்பீடியா அல்லது அதன் முகவர்கள், உறுப்பினர்கள், அமைப்பாளர்கள் அல்லது பிற பயனர்களின் எந்தவொரு ஒப்பந்தம் அல்லது மிரட்டல் கடமைகளை உருவாக்கவோ அல்லது குறிக்கவோ இல்லை. Creative Commons Attributio Sharealike 3.0 Unported License (CC-BY-SA) க்கு அப்பால் இந்த தகவலைப் பயன்படுத்துவது அல்லது மாற்றியமைப்பதைப் பற்றியும், இந்த பக்கத்தை திறக்க வும் திருத்தவூம் முடியும் விக்கிபீடியா அல்லது அதன் தொடர்புடைய திட்டங்களில் நீங்கள் பதிவு செய்யக்கூடிய எந்தவொரு தகவலையும் மாற்ற, திருத்த, மாற்ற அல்லது நீக்க உரிமை உண்டு.
 விக்கிபீடியா கலைக்களஞ்சியத்தின் கட்டுரைகளில் பயன்படுத்தப்படும் அல்லது மேற்கோளிடப்பட்ட வர்த்தக சின்னங்கள், சேவை குறிகள், கூட்டு மதிப்பெண்கள், வடிவமைப்பு உரிமைகள் அல்லது இதே போன்ற உரிமைகள் அல்லது அவற்றின் உரிமையாளர்களின் சொத்து. CC-BY-SA மற்றும் GFDL உரிமம் வழங்கும் திட்டங்களின் கீழ் விக்கிபீடியா கட்டுரைகளின் அசல் எழுத்தாளர்களால் சிந்திக்கப்பட்ட அதே தகவலுக்கும் இதே போன்ற தகவலுக்கும் தவிர வேறு எந்த நோக்கத்திற்காகவும் நீங்கள் அவற்றைப் பயன்படுத்தக்கூடாது என்பதைக் குறிக்கவில்லை. விக்கிபீடியா மற்றும் விக்கிமீடியா தளங்கள் இல்லையெனில், எந்தவொரு உரிமையாளருக்கும் எந்தவொரு உரிமையாளருடனும் தொடர்புபடுத்தப்படாது அல்லது அத்தகைய விக்கிபீடியாவில் எந்தவொரு விதத்தில் பாதுகாக்கப்பட்ட பொருட்களையும் பயன்படுத்த முடியாது. அத்தகைய அல்லது இது போன்ற ஒற்றுமை சொத்து உங்கள் சொந்த ஆபத்தை பயன்படுத்துகிறது.
 விக்கிபீடியாவில் சமீபத்தில் உயிருடன் அல்லது இறந்த ஒரு அடையாளம் காணக்கூடிய நபரை சித்தரிக்கக்கூடிய பொருள் உள்ளது. உயிருள்ள அல்லது சமீபத்தில் இறந்த தனிநபர்களின் படங்களை பயன்படுத்துவது, சில அதிகார எல்லைகளில், அவர்களின் பதிப்புரிமை நிலையிலிருந்து சுயாதீனமான உரிமைகள் தொடர்பான சட்டங்களால் வரையறுக்கப்படுகிறது. இந்த வகையான உள்ளடக்கங்களைப் பயன்படுத்துவதற்கு முன்பு, உங்கள் நோக்கம் பயன்பாட்டின் சூழ்நிலைகளில் பொருந்தும் சட்டங்களின் கீழ் அதைப் பயன்படுத்த உங்களுக்கு உரிமை உள்ளது என்பதை உறுதிப்படுத்துக. நீங்கள் வேறு ஒருவரின் தனிப்பட்ட உரிமைகளை மீறுவதாக இல்லை என்பதை உறுதிசெய்ய நீங்கள் பொறுப்பாக உள்ளீர்கள்
 விக்கிப்பீடியாவில் காணப்படும் தகவல்கள் உங்களுடைய நாட்டின் சட்ட விதிகளை மீறி இருக்கலாம் அல்லது இந்த தகவலை காண்பது உங்கள் நாட்டில் தடை செய்யப்பட்டிருக்கலாம்.  விக்கிபீடியா தரவுத்தளம் அமெரிக்காவில் புளோரிடா மாநிலத்தில் உள்ள ஒரு சேவையகத்தில் சேமிக்கப்படுகிறது. மேலும் அமெரிக்க மாநில மற்றும் கூட்டாட்சி சட்டங்களுக்கு உட்பட்டது. விக்கிப்பீடியாவில் கருத்துகள் தெரிவிப்பது விக்கிப்பீடியா உள்ளடக்கத்தை விநியோகம் செய்வது போன்ற செயல்களுக்கு உங்களுடைய நாட்டின் சட்ட விதிகளின் படி அனுமதி இல்லாமல் இருக்கலாம். இத்தகைய சட்டங்கள் உங்கள் நாட்டில் இருந்தால் அச்சட்டமீறல்களைச் செய்ய விக்கிப்பீடியா உங்களை ஊக்குவிக்கவில்லை, இது போன்ற எந்த விதமான சட்ட மீறல்களுக்கும் விக்கிப்பீடியா பொறுப்பு ஆகாது. இந்த இணையதளத்தை இணைக்க அல்லது பயன்படுத்த, பிரதி உண்டாக்க, அல்லது இங்கு உள்ள தகவல் மறுவெளியீடு செய்ய இந்த தகவலையும் சேர்த்து வெளியிட வேண்டும்.
 உங்களுக்கு குறிப்பிட்ட துறையில் ஆலோசனை தேவைப்பட்டால் (எடுத்துக்காட்டாக மருத்துவம், சட்டம், நிதி, அல்லது இடர் மேலாண்மை) அந்தத் துறையில் அனுபவமுள்ள அல்லது அந்த துறையில் சிறந்தவரின் உதவியை நாடவும்.
 மேலும் பார்க்க:  


URL: https://pa.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A8%B5%E0%A8%BF%E0%A8%95%E0%A9%80%E0%A8%AA%E0%A9%80%E0%A8%A1%E0%A9%80%E0%A8%86:%E0%A8%86%E0%A8%AE_%E0%A8%85%E0%A8%B8%E0%A8%B5%E0%A9%80%E0%A8%95%E0%A8%BE%E0%A8%B0%E0%A8%A4%E0%A8%BE

Content: 
 
 विकिपीडिया एक वेब आधारित सहयोग-प्राप्त ज्ञानकोश है, अर्थात्, यह मानव ज्ञान का आम संसाधन विकसित करने के लिए व्यक्तियों तथा समूहों का एक स्वैच्छिक संगठन है। इस परियोजना की संरचना अंतर्जाल संयोजन के साथ किसी भी व्यक्ति को इसकी सामग्री परिवर्तित करने की अनुमति देता है। कृपया यह ध्यान रखें कि यह आवश्यक नहीं है कि यहाँ पाई गई सामग्री की विशेषज्ञों द्वारा सही तथा विश्वसनीय जानकारी देने के लिए समीक्षा की गई हो।   ਵਿਕੀਪੀਡੀਆ ਇੱਕ ਵੈੱਬ ਅਧਾਰਿਤ ਸਹਿਜੋਗ ਮਿਲਦੇ ਰਹਿਣ ਉੱਪਰ ਨਿਰਭਰ ਗਿਆਨ ਦਾ ਭੰਡਾਰ ਹੈ,ਜਿਹੜਾ ਕਿ ਆਜ਼ਾਦ ਸੰਗਠਨ ਹੈ ਜੋ ਕਿ ਇਕ ਮਜ਼ਬੂਤ ਅਤੇ ਮਨੁੱਖੀ ਵਰਤੋਂ ਯੋਗ ਸੰਸਾਧਨ ਸਾਬਤ ਹੋਣ ਵਾਸਤੇ ਸਮਰਪਿਤ ਆਮ ਲੋਕ ਜਾਂ ਉਹਨਾਂ ਦੇ ਸਮੂਹ ਦੇ ਯੋਗਦਾਨ ਦੀ ਖਾਹਿਸ਼ ਰੱਖਦਾ ਹੈ । ਇਸ ਪਰਿਯੋਜਨਾ ਦੀ ਬਣਤਰ ਆਪਸੀ ਸਹਿਜੋਗ ਤੇ ਅਧਾਰਿਤ ਹੋਣ ਦੇ ਕਾਰਨ ਇਹ ਹਰੇਕ ਵਿਯਕਤੀ ਨੂੰ ਇਸਨੂੰ ਬਦਲ ਸਕਣ ਦਾ ਹੱਕਦਾਰ ਬਣਾਉਂਦੀ ਹੈ । ਇੱਥੇ ਧਿਆਨ ਦੇਣ ਦੀ ਲੋੜ ਹੈ ਕਿ ਕੋਈ ਜ਼ਰੂਰੀ ਨਹੀਂ ਕਿ ਇਸਦੀ ਸਮੱਗਰੀ ਤਿਆਰ ਕਰਨ ਲਈ ਕਿਸੇ ਮਾਹਿਰ ਜਾਂ ਭਰੋਸੇ ਯੋਗ ਸਰੋਤਾਂ ਦੀ ਜਾਣਕਾਰੀ ਜੁਟਾਈ ਗਈ ਹੋਵੇ।
 इसका यह तात्पर्य नहीं है कि आपको विकिपीडिया पर मूल्यवान तथा सही जानकारी नहीं मिलेगी; अधिकांशतः यह सही ही होगी। हालांकि,   किसी भी लेख की सामग्री को हटाया जा सकता है, उत्पात का शिकार हो सकती है अथवा ऐसे व्यक्ति द्वारा बदली जा सकती है जो उस संगत क्षेत्र में ज्ञान की अवस्था से भिन्न विचार रखता हो। ध्यान दें कि अधिकतर अन्य विकिपीडिया तथा सन्दर्भ कार्यों में भी   होते हैं।
 हम लेखों के विश्वसनीय संस्करण चुनने तथा हाइलाइट करने के तरीकों पर कार्य कर रहे हैं। हमारा सम्पादकों का सक्रिय समुदाय नयी तथा बदलती सामग्री पर निगाह रखने के लिये   तथा   फीड जैसे औजारों का प्रयोग करता है। हालाँकि विकिपीडिया की समीक्षा समान रूप से नहीं की जाती; यद्यपि पाठक गलतियों को सुधार सकते हैं तथा कैजुअल   में शामिल हो सकते हैं तथापि उन्हें ऐसा करने का कोई कानूनी कर्तव्य नहीं है तथा इस प्रकार यहाँ पढ़ी गयी सारी जानकारी किसी उद्देश्य या किसी प्रयोग के लिये बिना किसी क्रियान्वित फिटनेस वारण्टी के है। यहाँ तक कि जो लेख अनौपचारिक पीयर समीक्षा अथवा   प्रक्रिया से गुजरे है बाद में इससे पहले कि आप उन्हें देखें हो सकता है कि वो अनुपयुक्त रूप से सम्पादित किये गये हों।
 
 कृपया यह सुनिश्चित कर लें कि यहाँ उपलब्ध की गयी जानकारी मुक्त रूप से उपलब्ध कराई जा रही है तथा आपके एवं इस साइट के मालिकों या सदस्यों, सर्वर के मालिकों, एकल विकिपीडिया योगदानकर्ता, कोई परियोजना प्रबन्धक, सिस्टम ऑपरेटर या कोई अन्य जो इस परियोजना या इसकी किसी बन्धु परियोजना से   के मध्य आपके किसी प्रकार के दावे हेतु किसी प्रकार का ऍग्रीमेण्ट या अनुबन्ध नहीं हो रहा। आपको इस साइट से कोई सामग्री कॉपी करने हेतु एक सीमित लाइसेंस दिया जा रहा है; यह विकिपीडिया की तरफ से या इसके किसी एजेण्ट, सदस्य किसी अनुबन्धित या अतिरिक्त अनुबन्धित दायित्व को बनाता या क्रियान्वित नहीं करता।
  विकिपीडिया के   (CC-BY-SA) तथा   (GFDL) के अन्तर्गत ही है। इसके अतिरिक्त विकिपीडिया से जुड़ा कोई भी व्यक्ति किसी सामग्री में किसी के द्वारा परिवर्तन, सम्पादन, संशोधन तथा निकाले जाने हेतु जिम्मेदार नहीं होगा।
 कोई भी ट्रेडमार्क, सर्विस मार्क, साँझे/संयुक्त मार्क, डिजाइन अधिकार अथवा इसी प्रकार के अधिकार जो कि विकिपीडिया के लेखों में व्यवस्थित किये जाते हैं, प्रयोग किये जाते हैं अथवा उद्धृत किये जाते हैं वे उनके क्रमशः मालिकों की मिल्कियत हैं। उनके यहाँ प्रयोग का अर्थ यह नहीं है कि आप उनका समान अथवा समान जानकारीपूर्ण प्रयोग के अतिरिक्त अन्य कार्यों हेतु प्रयोग कर सकें जैसा कि इन विकिपीडिया लेखों के मूल लेखकों के द्वारा CC-BY-SA तथा GFDL लाइसेंस स्कीमों में वर्णित है। जब तक अन्यथा न कहा जाय विकिपीडिया तथा विकिमीडिया साइटें न तो इन अधिकारों के मालिकों से किसी प्रकार सम्बद्ध हैं और न ही समर्थित हैं अतः विकिपीडिया किसी अन्य रूप से सुरक्षित सामग्री के प्रयोग हेतु अधिकार प्रदान नहीं कर सकता। आपके द्वारा इस प्रकार या   का उपयोग आपके अपनी जिम्मेदारी पर है।
 विकिपीडिया में ऐसी सामग्री है जिसमें एक पहचान योग्य व्यक्ति को चित्रित किया गया हो जो जीवित या हाल ही में मर चुका हो। जीवित या हालिया मृत व्यक्ति के चित्रों का उपयोग कुछ अधिकार-क्षेत्रों में कॉपीराइट स्थिति के अलावा व्यक्तिगत अधिकारों से सम्बद्ध कानूनों द्वारा प्रतिबन्धित है। इस प्रकार की सामग्री के उपयोग से पहले कृपया यह सुनिश्चित कर लें कि आपको आपके आशयित प्रयोग से सम्बद्ध क्षेत्र में कानूनन इनके प्रयोग का अधिकार हो।  
 विकिपीडिया पर उपलब्ध सामग्री का प्रकाशन आप जिस देश में यह जानकारी देख रहे हैं, उस देश या क्षेत्र के कानून का उल्लंघन हो सकती है। विकिपीडिया डाटाबेस   के   प्रान्त के एक सर्वर में संगृहीत है तथा इसका प्रबन्धन/व्यवस्थापन स्थानीय तथा संघीय कानून में प्रदत्त सुरक्षा सन्दर्भानुसार होता है। आपके देश के कानून इस प्रकार के वक्तत्व्य या वितरण की सुरक्षा या अनुमति शायद न दे सकें। विकिपीडिया किसी कानून के उल्लंघन को प्रोत्साहित नहीं करता तथा इस प्रकार के किसी कानून के उल्लंघन हेतु जिम्मेदार नहीं ठहराया जा सकता चाहे आप इस डोमेन को लिंक कर रहे हों, यहाँ उपलब्ध सामग्री को प्रयोग कर रहे हों, पुनर्निर्मित अथवा पुनर्प्रकाशित कर रहे हों।
 यदि आपको विशिष्ट सलाह (उदाहरण के लिये, चिकित्सकीय, कानूनी, वित्तीय अथवा रिस्क प्रबन्धन आदि) चाहिये तो कृपया किसी व्यावसायिक विशेषज्ञ की सलाह लें जो कि उस क्षेत्र में लाइसेसं प्राप्त अथवा विशेष ज्ञानी हो।


URL: https://pfl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Impressum

Content: Anbieter vun derre Internetsaite isch d  , aigedrache baim   unna de Numma N03000005323. D Wikimedia Foundation isch e Stiftung noch em Recht vum US-Bunnesstaat Florida. D verantwortlich Ansprechperson un   im Sinn vum   isch zur Zait d  .
 Bai Froche kinnen Ehr aich ach an d aktive Nutza vun de Rheifränkische Wikipedia wenne, zum Baischpiel uf em  .


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Survey_disclaimer

Content: 
 By participating in a survey, you consent to the transfer of the information you submit to the   in the United States and elsewhere. The information collected is for internal research purposes only and will not be publicly associated with your account.  However, we may share the results of this survey with the public in anonymized or aggregated forms.


URL: https://uz.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikipediya:Mas%CA%BCuliyatdan_voz_kechish

Content:  — bu  - , yaʼni undagi maʼlumotlarni internetga ulangan  . Shuni nazarda tutingki, bu yerda joylashtirilgan maʼlumotlar aniq va ishonchli ekanligiga kafolat berilmaydi, chunki ular soha mutaxassislari tomonidan tekshirib chiqilmagan boʻlishi mumkin.
 Vikipediyaga aloqador boʻlgan hech bir shaxs lohiya sahifalarida xato yoki yolgʻon maʼlumotlar paydo boʻlmasligiga masʼul emas.
 Agar sizga tibbiyot, huquqshunoslik, moliya sohalari boʻyicha mutaxassis maslahati kerak boʻlsa, iltimos, tegishli litsenziya va bilimga ega professionallarga murojaat qiling.


URL: https://pa.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A8%B5%E0%A8%BF%E0%A8%95%E0%A9%80%E0%A8%AA%E0%A9%80%E0%A8%A1%E0%A9%80%E0%A8%86:%E0%A8%86%E0%A8%AE_%E0%A8%85%E0%A8%B8%E0%A8%B5%E0%A9%80%E0%A8%95%E0%A8%BE%E0%A8%B0%E0%A8%A4%E0%A8%BE

Content: 
 
 विकिपीडिया एक वेब आधारित सहयोग-प्राप्त ज्ञानकोश है, अर्थात्, यह मानव ज्ञान का आम संसाधन विकसित करने के लिए व्यक्तियों तथा समूहों का एक स्वैच्छिक संगठन है। इस परियोजना की संरचना अंतर्जाल संयोजन के साथ किसी भी व्यक्ति को इसकी सामग्री परिवर्तित करने की अनुमति देता है। कृपया यह ध्यान रखें कि यह आवश्यक नहीं है कि यहाँ पाई गई सामग्री की विशेषज्ञों द्वारा सही तथा विश्वसनीय जानकारी देने के लिए समीक्षा की गई हो।   ਵਿਕੀਪੀਡੀਆ ਇੱਕ ਵੈੱਬ ਅਧਾਰਿਤ ਸਹਿਜੋਗ ਮਿਲਦੇ ਰਹਿਣ ਉੱਪਰ ਨਿਰਭਰ ਗਿਆਨ ਦਾ ਭੰਡਾਰ ਹੈ,ਜਿਹੜਾ ਕਿ ਆਜ਼ਾਦ ਸੰਗਠਨ ਹੈ ਜੋ ਕਿ ਇਕ ਮਜ਼ਬੂਤ ਅਤੇ ਮਨੁੱਖੀ ਵਰਤੋਂ ਯੋਗ ਸੰਸਾਧਨ ਸਾਬਤ ਹੋਣ ਵਾਸਤੇ ਸਮਰਪਿਤ ਆਮ ਲੋਕ ਜਾਂ ਉਹਨਾਂ ਦੇ ਸਮੂਹ ਦੇ ਯੋਗਦਾਨ ਦੀ ਖਾਹਿਸ਼ ਰੱਖਦਾ ਹੈ । ਇਸ ਪਰਿਯੋਜਨਾ ਦੀ ਬਣਤਰ ਆਪਸੀ ਸਹਿਜੋਗ ਤੇ ਅਧਾਰਿਤ ਹੋਣ ਦੇ ਕਾਰਨ ਇਹ ਹਰੇਕ ਵਿਯਕਤੀ ਨੂੰ ਇਸਨੂੰ ਬਦਲ ਸਕਣ ਦਾ ਹੱਕਦਾਰ ਬਣਾਉਂਦੀ ਹੈ । ਇੱਥੇ ਧਿਆਨ ਦੇਣ ਦੀ ਲੋੜ ਹੈ ਕਿ ਕੋਈ ਜ਼ਰੂਰੀ ਨਹੀਂ ਕਿ ਇਸਦੀ ਸਮੱਗਰੀ ਤਿਆਰ ਕਰਨ ਲਈ ਕਿਸੇ ਮਾਹਿਰ ਜਾਂ ਭਰੋਸੇ ਯੋਗ ਸਰੋਤਾਂ ਦੀ ਜਾਣਕਾਰੀ ਜੁਟਾਈ ਗਈ ਹੋਵੇ।
 इसका यह तात्पर्य नहीं है कि आपको विकिपीडिया पर मूल्यवान तथा सही जानकारी नहीं मिलेगी; अधिकांशतः यह सही ही होगी। हालांकि,   किसी भी लेख की सामग्री को हटाया जा सकता है, उत्पात का शिकार हो सकती है अथवा ऐसे व्यक्ति द्वारा बदली जा सकती है जो उस संगत क्षेत्र में ज्ञान की अवस्था से भिन्न विचार रखता हो। ध्यान दें कि अधिकतर अन्य विकिपीडिया तथा सन्दर्भ कार्यों में भी   होते हैं।
 हम लेखों के विश्वसनीय संस्करण चुनने तथा हाइलाइट करने के तरीकों पर कार्य कर रहे हैं। हमारा सम्पादकों का सक्रिय समुदाय नयी तथा बदलती सामग्री पर निगाह रखने के लिये   तथा   फीड जैसे औजारों का प्रयोग करता है। हालाँकि विकिपीडिया की समीक्षा समान रूप से नहीं की जाती; यद्यपि पाठक गलतियों को सुधार सकते हैं तथा कैजुअल   में शामिल हो सकते हैं तथापि उन्हें ऐसा करने का कोई कानूनी कर्तव्य नहीं है तथा इस प्रकार यहाँ पढ़ी गयी सारी जानकारी किसी उद्देश्य या किसी प्रयोग के लिये बिना किसी क्रियान्वित फिटनेस वारण्टी के है। यहाँ तक कि जो लेख अनौपचारिक पीयर समीक्षा अथवा   प्रक्रिया से गुजरे है बाद में इससे पहले कि आप उन्हें देखें हो सकता है कि वो अनुपयुक्त रूप से सम्पादित किये गये हों।
 
 कृपया यह सुनिश्चित कर लें कि यहाँ उपलब्ध की गयी जानकारी मुक्त रूप से उपलब्ध कराई जा रही है तथा आपके एवं इस साइट के मालिकों या सदस्यों, सर्वर के मालिकों, एकल विकिपीडिया योगदानकर्ता, कोई परियोजना प्रबन्धक, सिस्टम ऑपरेटर या कोई अन्य जो इस परियोजना या इसकी किसी बन्धु परियोजना से   के मध्य आपके किसी प्रकार के दावे हेतु किसी प्रकार का ऍग्रीमेण्ट या अनुबन्ध नहीं हो रहा। आपको इस साइट से कोई सामग्री कॉपी करने हेतु एक सीमित लाइसेंस दिया जा रहा है; यह विकिपीडिया की तरफ से या इसके किसी एजेण्ट, सदस्य किसी अनुबन्धित या अतिरिक्त अनुबन्धित दायित्व को बनाता या क्रियान्वित नहीं करता।
  विकिपीडिया के   (CC-BY-SA) तथा   (GFDL) के अन्तर्गत ही है। इसके अतिरिक्त विकिपीडिया से जुड़ा कोई भी व्यक्ति किसी सामग्री में किसी के द्वारा परिवर्तन, सम्पादन, संशोधन तथा निकाले जाने हेतु जिम्मेदार नहीं होगा।
 कोई भी ट्रेडमार्क, सर्विस मार्क, साँझे/संयुक्त मार्क, डिजाइन अधिकार अथवा इसी प्रकार के अधिकार जो कि विकिपीडिया के लेखों में व्यवस्थित किये जाते हैं, प्रयोग किये जाते हैं अथवा उद्धृत किये जाते हैं वे उनके क्रमशः मालिकों की मिल्कियत हैं। उनके यहाँ प्रयोग का अर्थ यह नहीं है कि आप उनका समान अथवा समान जानकारीपूर्ण प्रयोग के अतिरिक्त अन्य कार्यों हेतु प्रयोग कर सकें जैसा कि इन विकिपीडिया लेखों के मूल लेखकों के द्वारा CC-BY-SA तथा GFDL लाइसेंस स्कीमों में वर्णित है। जब तक अन्यथा न कहा जाय विकिपीडिया तथा विकिमीडिया साइटें न तो इन अधिकारों के मालिकों से किसी प्रकार सम्बद्ध हैं और न ही समर्थित हैं अतः विकिपीडिया किसी अन्य रूप से सुरक्षित सामग्री के प्रयोग हेतु अधिकार प्रदान नहीं कर सकता। आपके द्वारा इस प्रकार या   का उपयोग आपके अपनी जिम्मेदारी पर है।
 विकिपीडिया में ऐसी सामग्री है जिसमें एक पहचान योग्य व्यक्ति को चित्रित किया गया हो जो जीवित या हाल ही में मर चुका हो। जीवित या हालिया मृत व्यक्ति के चित्रों का उपयोग कुछ अधिकार-क्षेत्रों में कॉपीराइट स्थिति के अलावा व्यक्तिगत अधिकारों से सम्बद्ध कानूनों द्वारा प्रतिबन्धित है। इस प्रकार की सामग्री के उपयोग से पहले कृपया यह सुनिश्चित कर लें कि आपको आपके आशयित प्रयोग से सम्बद्ध क्षेत्र में कानूनन इनके प्रयोग का अधिकार हो।  
 विकिपीडिया पर उपलब्ध सामग्री का प्रकाशन आप जिस देश में यह जानकारी देख रहे हैं, उस देश या क्षेत्र के कानून का उल्लंघन हो सकती है। विकिपीडिया डाटाबेस   के   प्रान्त के एक सर्वर में संगृहीत है तथा इसका प्रबन्धन/व्यवस्थापन स्थानीय तथा संघीय कानून में प्रदत्त सुरक्षा सन्दर्भानुसार होता है। आपके देश के कानून इस प्रकार के वक्तत्व्य या वितरण की सुरक्षा या अनुमति शायद न दे सकें। विकिपीडिया किसी कानून के उल्लंघन को प्रोत्साहित नहीं करता तथा इस प्रकार के किसी कानून के उल्लंघन हेतु जिम्मेदार नहीं ठहराया जा सकता चाहे आप इस डोमेन को लिंक कर रहे हों, यहाँ उपलब्ध सामग्री को प्रयोग कर रहे हों, पुनर्निर्मित अथवा पुनर्प्रकाशित कर रहे हों।
 यदि आपको विशिष्ट सलाह (उदाहरण के लिये, चिकित्सकीय, कानूनी, वित्तीय अथवा रिस्क प्रबन्धन आदि) चाहिये तो कृपया किसी व्यावसायिक विशेषज्ञ की सलाह लें जो कि उस क्षेत्र में लाइसेसं प्राप्त अथवा विशेष ज्ञानी हो।


URL: https://tl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Pangkalahatang_pagtatanggi

Content: Mangyari ring basahin ang mga sumusunod:
 
 HINDI GINAGARANTIYA NG WIKIPEDIA NA ANG IMPORMASYONG NAKALAGAY SA MGA NILALAMAN NITO AY KUMPLETO, TAMA, MAAASAHAN AT MAPAGKAKATIWALAAN.
 Ang Wikipedia ay isa pong malaya at bukas na ensiklopedyang sama-samang pinagtutulungan ng mga boluntaryong indibidwal at grupo sa mithiing makagawa ng isang pangkalahatang pinagkukunan ng impormasyon. Dahil sa anyo ng proyektong ito, maaari pong baguhin ng kahit sinumang nakakonekta sa Internet ang kahit ano sa mga nilalaman nito. Mangyari pong dapat niyong malaman na hindi po dumaan sa hanay ng mga eksperto ng larangang kinabibilangan ng isang partikular na artikulo ang impormasyong nakalagay. Sa madaling salita po, hindi po masasabing kumpleto, tama, maasahan o mapagkakatiwalaan ang kahit anong impormasyon na nakalagay rito.
 Gayunpaman, hindi ibig sabihin nito ay hindi ka na makakahanap ng mahalaga at tamang impormasyon rito sa Wikipedia. Sa totoo lang, madalas kang makakakita ng tamang impormasyon rito.
 Subalit, pakatandaan lamang po na   Maaari agad mabago ang nilalaman ng kahit sino upang babuyin o di kaya'y dahil sa sumasalungat ng opinyon niya sa napagkasunduan ng nakakarami sa partikular na larangang iyon. 
 Mangyari rin pong dapat niyong malaman na may kaparehong mga pagtatanggi rin ang ibang mga ensiklopedya at pinagkukunan ng impormasyon.
 Ginagamit ng aming aktibong komunidad ng mga tagapatnugot ( ) ang mga kagamitang tulad ng   at   para bantayan ang mga pumapasok na bago at binagong mga nilalaman. Gayunpaman, hindi pantay na nasusuri ng nakakarami ang kabuuan ng Wikipedia - pwedeng itama ng mga mambabasa ang mga kamalian o di kaya'y sumali sa mga pagsusuring ginagawa, pero wala silang tungkuling ligal na gawin iyon at dahil sa kadahilanang iyon, walang katiyakan at garantiya na maaaring magamit ang kahit anong impormasyong nakalagay rito para sa kahit anong paggamit o kung anuman. Maaari ring mabago ang mga artikulong nasuri na nang impormal o di kaya'y itinampok na ( ), bago mo pa mang makita't mabasa iyon.
 
 Siguraduhing naiintindihan mo na binibigay ang impormasyong nilalagay rito nang libre, at walang kasunduan o kontratang ginawa sa pagitan mo at ng mga may-ari at tagagamit ng sayt na ito, ang mga may-ari ng mga   kung saan ito nakalagay, mga indibidwal na nag-ambag sa Wikipedia, kahit sino sa mga tagapangasiwa ng mga proyekto, mga   (mga tagapangasiwa ng isang sistemang may maraming tagagamit), o sa kahit sinumang konektado sa proyektong ito sa mga kakambal nitong mga proyekto   na mapapailalim sa mga paghahabol mo sa kanila nang direkta. Binibigyan ka ng isang limitadong lisensiya sa pagkopya ng kahit anong nasa sayt; hindi ito gumagawa o nagsasabing may pananagutang kontraktwal o ekstrakontraktwal ang Wikipedia o kahit sino sa mga ahente, miyembro, tagapag-ayos, o sa iba pang mga tagagamit nito.
  tungkol sa paggamit mo o sa pagbago sa impormasyong ito na lagpas sa saklaw ng lisensiyang   (walang hurisdiksyon, hal. bansa) na   (CC-BY-SA) at ang lisensiyang   (GFDL), at wala ring responsibilidad ang kahit sinuman sa Wikipedia sa pagbago mo, pagmodipika, o pagtanggal ng impormasyong ipinaskil ( ) mo sa Wikipedia o sa kahit alin sa mga kaugnay nitong proyekto.
 Pagmamay-ari ng nagmamay-ari sa kanila ang kahit anong mga tatak ( ), tatak ng serbisyo ( ), tatak ng 7 9809-[9-0m==ng paggamit ng impormasyon tulad ng naisip ng mga may-akda ng mga artikulong ito sa Wikipedia na nasa ilalim ng mga lisensiyang CC-BY-SA at GFDL. Maliban lamang kung nakasaad, hindi ineendorso ni kasapi ang Wikipedia at Wikimedia sa mga may-ari ng n =f[v0d0=x0 ]8 -q]-9w-9s-09 
 Naglalaman ang Wikipedia ng mga materyales na maaaring makatukoy ng isang buhay o kamamatay lang na tao. Nililimitahan ng mga batas na may kaugnayan sa karapatan sa pagkatao ng ilang hurisdiksyon ang paggamit sa mga larawan ng buhay o kamamatay lang na tao, at iba pa ito sa estado ng karapatan sa pagmamay-ari ng mga ito. Siguraduhing may karapatan kang gamitin ang mga iyon sa ilalim ng mga batas na malalapat sa kalagayan ng panggagamitan mo.  
 Maaaring labag sa batas ng bansa kung saan mo nababasa ang impormasyong nakalagay rito ang paglathala ng impormasyong nasa Wikipedia. Nakatago ang lahat ng impormasyon ng Wikipedia sa mga   nito sa Estados Unidos, at patuloy na pinangangalagaan ito sa ilalim ng proteksyon ng mga lokal at pederal na batas. Maaaring hindi protektado o pinapayagan ng mga batas ng iyong bansa o hurisdiksyon ang kaparehong antas ng pagsalita at/o paglimbag. Hindi hinihimok ng Wikipedia ang paglabag sa kahit anong mga batas, at hindi rin responsable ito para sa mga paglabag sa batas na iyon, kung sakali mang nagkawing ( ) ka sa dominyong ( ) ito o maging ang paggamit, pagkopya, o paglimbag muli ng mga impormasyong nakalagay rito.
 Kung nangangailangan ka ng tiyak na payo (tulad ng medikal, ligal, pinansiyal, o pamamahala sa peligro), mangyaring humingi ng payo sa isang propesyonal na lisensiyado o may alam sa naturang larangan.


URL: https://nds.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Impressum

Content: Anbaden warrt disse Websteed vun de  , indragen bi dat   ünner de Nummer N03000005323. De Wikimedia Foundation is en Sticht na dat Recht vun’n US-Bundsstaat  . De Verantwoortliche un Designated Agent na den Digital Millennium Copyright Act is  .
 Wenn se Fragen hebbt oder en Interview wünscht köönt se sik informell ok an de aktiven Brukers wennen, kiek dorto bi   un  .
  is ene fre’e  , de ünner de   in’t Internett ünner   to finnen is. Mehr dorto steiht in’n  .
 De as „Administraters“ optellten Brukers in de Wikipedia sünd kene offiziellen Vertreders vun’n Anbeder vun disse Websteed. Se sünd blots Brukers, de en beten mehr technische Mööglichkeiten kregen hebbt. Disse Lüüd helpt in de Regel geern un gau bi Fragen oder Problemen, sünd aver op kene Wies för disse Websteed verantwoortlich.
 Elk Bruker is för de vun em instellten Bidrääg sülvs in vullen Ümfang verantwoortlich. Utsluss vun enkelte Brukers behöllt sik de Anbeder vör.
 De Brukers sünd opropen, de Inholten, de se to disse Websteed bistüert, na best Weten to erstellen. Aver  
 De Anbeder verlööft den kommerziellen Bruuk un de Wiedergaav vun de in Wikipedia enthaltenen Daten ünner de Bedingen vun de  , kiek ok bi  .
 De Anbeder wiest op alle Sieden dorop hen, dat Material, dat ünner dat Oorheverrecht vun Drüdde steiht, nich bruukt warrn dröff. In enkelte Fäll kann dat aver vörkamen, dat en Bruker gegen dat Oorheverrecht verstött, ahn dat dat opfallt.
 Wenn de Anbeder en Henwies op so en Vörfall kriggt, denn warrt opsteeds dat Material vun’n Server nahmen. Se köönt sik över de Siet   oder över en E-Mail an de Adress   mellen, wenn se denkt, dat en Wikipedia-Siet gegen ehr Oorheverrecht verstött. Üm dat Bearbeiden vun de Anfraag fix aftosluten, is dat wichtig, de Adress vun de problemaatsche Wikipedia-Siet un den Naam vun dat Originalmaterial, vun dat kopeert worrn is, mit optoföhren.


URL: https://pl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Korzystasz_z_Wikipedii_tylko_na_w%C5%82asn%C4%85_odpowiedzialno%C5%9B%C4%87

Content: Wikipedia jest encyklopedią sieciową tworzoną w otwartym gronie współpracowników, czyli w grupie ochotników i grup wolontariuszy, wspólnie zbierających ludzką wiedzę. Przyjęte założenia pozwalają każdej osobie dysponującej połączeniem z Internetem na zmienianie treści Wikipedii. Należy jednak zakładać, że zamieszczone w projekcie treści nie zostały przejrzane przez osoby kompetentne w poszczególnych dziedzinach wiedzy i że mogą one nie stanowić kompletnej, dokładnej czy rzetelnej informacji.
 Nie oznacza to, że w Wikipedii nie da się znaleźć wartościowych i dokładnych informacji – w wielu przypadkach Wikipedia zamieszcza materiały dobrej jakości. Wikipedia jednak  . Zawartość dowolnego hasła mogła niedawno ulec zmianom lub zniszczeniu przez osoby, których opinie nie są zbieżne z aktualnym stanem wiedzy w danej dziedzinie. Większość innych encyklopedii, co warte odnotowania, również zawiera oświadczenia podobne do niniejszego.
 Pracujemy nad tym, by przedstawiać i oznaczać wartościowe wersje haseł w Wikipedii. Aktywna społeczność współtwórców Wikipedii korzysta z różnych mechanizmów, na przykład  , czy  , w celu monitorowania pojawiających się nowych haseł oraz modyfikacji w istniejących. Wikipedia nie korzysta jednak z jakiegokolwiek formalnego systemu przeglądu treści – użytkownicy mogą poprawiać błędy i angażować się w nieformalne kręgi zainteresowań, nie są jednak do tego w żaden sposób zobligowani – zawarte więc w Wikipedii treści nie niosą z sobą zapewnienia, że są odpowiednie do jakiegokolwiek wykorzystania. Nawet artykuły, które w wyniku nieformalnego przeglądu zostały wyróżnione statusem haseł  , mogły zostać w nieodpowiedni sposób zmienione tuż przed ich wyświetleniem jednemu z czytelników.
 
 Należy pamiętać, ze prezentowane w Wikipedii treści publikowane są za darmo i że pomiędzy czytelnikiem a właścicielami i użytkownikami serwisu nie jest w wyniku czytania treści Wikipedii zawierana jakakolwiek umowa. Podobna zależność zachodzi w odniesieniu do właścicieli serwerów udostępniających treści Wikipedii, poszczególnych współredaktorów projektu, administratorów, personelu technicznego albo kogokolwiek w jakikolwiek sposób związanego z Wikipedią lub jej projektami siostrzanymi. Czytelnicy otrzymują treści na ograniczonej licencji, pozwalającej na kopiowanie prezentowanych im treści; licencja ta nie nakłada jednak na Wikipedię ani żadnego z jej współtwórców, członków, organizatorów, czy innych użytkowników żadnych zobowiązań wynikających z umowy lub od umowy niezależnych.
 Pomiędzy czytelnikiem a Wikipedią   w kwestii wykorzystywania zmodyfikowanych treści haseł wykraczająca poza ustalenia licencji   oraz  . Podobnie, nikt powiązany w jakikolwiek sposób z Wikipedią nie jest odpowiedzialny za modyfikowanie, edytowanie, czy usuwanie informacji zamieszczanych przez poszczególnych użytkowników w Wikipedii i jej projektach siostrzanych.
 Wszelkie  , usługowe, organizacyjne, prawa projektowe i inne przywołane, wykorzystywane i cytowane w hasłach Wikipedii, należą do ich właścicieli. Ich zamieszczenie na stronach Wikipedii nie oznacza, że dopuszczalne jest wykorzystywanie ich w sposób inny, niż założyli to współtwórcy artykułów Wikipedii: informacyjny i udostępniony na mocy licencji CC-BY-SA 3.0 oraz GFDL. O ile nie zaznaczono inaczej, strony projektów Wikimedia, w tym Wikipedii, nie są autoryzowane przez właścicieli praw, czy z nimi związane, więc Wikipedia nie gwarantuje wolności użytkowania tego rodzaju materiałów. Korzystasz z tego rodzaju i podobnej własności intelektualnej na własne ryzyko.
 Wikipedia zawiera materiały mogące przedstawiać wizerunki identyfikowalnych osób, które jeszcze żyją lub niedawno zmarły. W niektórych systemach prawnych wykorzystywanie wizerunków osób żyjących lub niedawno zmarłych jest regulowane prawami dotyczącymi ochrony  , niezależnie od ich statusu prawnoautorskiego. Przed wykorzystaniem zawartości tego typu należy upewnić się, czy można użyć jej zgodnie z prawem, które dotyczy warunków danego zastosowania tej zawartości.  
 Publikowanie znalezionych w Wikipedii informacji może być sprzeczne z systemem prawnym państwa, z terytorium którego przeglądana jest zawartość Wikipedii. Baza danych Wikipedii umieszczona jest na serwerach znajdujących się na terenie Stanów Zjednoczonych i prowadzona jest zgodnie z zasadami ochrony prawa lokalnego oraz federalnego tego kraju. System prawny kraju, z którego przeglądana jest zawartość Wikipedii, może nie zezwalać na taką samą wolność słowa lub rozpowszechniania informacji jak prawo amerykańskie. Wikipedia nie zachęca do naruszania żadnych przepisów prawa i nie może odpowiadać za ewentualne ich naruszenie, w przypadku gdy ktoś umieści link do jej strony, użyje, powieli lub opublikuje zawarte w niej informacje.
 Osoby chcące uzyskać poradę w określonej dziedzinie (np. medyczną, prawną, finansową czy związaną z zarządzaniem ryzykiem) powinny skonsultować się ze specjalistą w tej dziedzinie.


URL: https://tr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikipedi:Genel_sorumluluk_reddi

Content: 
  -  
  -  
  - 
 
  insan bilgisi dâhilinde ortak bir kaynak hazırlamak isteyen kişilerin veya grupların oluşturduğu ve herkesin ortak paydasında birleşen çevrim içi bir ansiklopedidir. Projenin temel hedefi, internet bağlantısı ve bir internet tarayıcısı olan herkesi bu içeriğe dâhil etmektir. Lütfen burada yer alan hiçbir bilginin alanında uzman profesyoneller tarafından değerlendirilmediğini, içeriğin size tam, kesin ve güvenilir bir bilgi sunmadığını unutmayınız. Bilgiler imece usulü herkesin katkıları ile oluşturulur.  
 Bu yargı, zaman geçtikçe sizin de göreceğiniz üzere  de yararlı veya kaliteli içerikler bulamayacağınız anlamına gelmemelidir. Yine de    Girilen herhangi bir maddenin içeriği, yakın bir zaman önce, ilgili maddenin konusuna karşıt görüşe sahip şahıslarca değiştirilmiş, zarar verilmiş olabilir. 
 Makalelerin güvenilir sürümlerini seçme ve bunları vurgulamanın yollarını araştırıyoruz. Yazarlar topluluğumuz,   ve   gibi araçlar kullanarak, değiştirilen ve yeni içeriği gözetlemektedir. Ancak  , gönüllüler tarafından düzenli bir şekilde incelenmediği için, okuyucular, buldukları hataları düzeltebilir veya tamamen rastgele olarak   sayfasıyla iletişim kurabilirlerse de, bu onların yasal yükümlülüğü değildir ve bu nedenle de, burada bulunan bilgilerin hiçbirinin, hiçbir amaca veya kullanıma yönelik olarak uygunluğunun garantisi yoktur. Hatta, hataları çeşitli kişilerce gayrıresmî olarak araştırılmış veya   işleminden geçmiş makaleler bile, siz okumadan kısa zaman önce uygunsuz bir şekilde değiştirilmiş olabilir.
 Burada bilginin serbestçe sağlandığını ve sizinle ve site sahip veya kullanıcıları, içeriğin yayınlandığı sunucu sahipleri,  ye katkıda bulunan bireyler, proje yöneticileri, sistem operatörleri ya da bu ve bu proje konularına bağlı kardeş projelere   diğer kişileri hüküm altına alacak bir anlaşma veya kontrat yaratmadığını anladığınızdan, lütfen emin olun. Sınırlandırılmış izinle bu siteden herhangi bir şeyi kopyalama hakkınız tanınmıştır; bu,  nin bir bölümü veya herhangi bir temsilcisi, üyesi, organizatörü ve diğer kullanıcıları üzerinde herhangi bir sözleşme veya sözleşme dışı bir sorumluluk yaratmaz ya da ifade etmez. 
  ötesinde bu bilgiyi kullanmanız veya düzenlemeniz ile ilişkili olarak,  ,   ve onunla ilişkili kardeş projelerin herhangi birisine gönderdiğiniz herhangi bir bilginin herhangi biri tarafından değiştirilmesi, tadil edilmesi, düzenlenmesi veya silinmesi durumunda  deki hiç kimse sorumlu tutulamaz.
  içeriğinde bulunan, bahsedilen herhangi bir tescilli marka, servis tescili, tasarım hakları, kişisel haklar veya buna benzer haklar şahsi sahiplerinin malıdır. Onların burada bulunması, burada orijinal yazarları tarafından yazılan   altındaki   içeriğindeki amaçtan veya bilgilendirme dışında başka bir amaçla kullanılabileceği anlamına gelmez.   ve   siteleri bu kullanımlardan   ve bu hakların sahibiyle bir anlaşması yoktur.   size bu hakları yukarıda belirtilen amaçlar dışında kullanma hakkı da tanıyamaz. Bu hakları veya benzer hakları  .


URL: https://ps.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%D9%8A%DA%A9%D9%8A%D9%BE%DB%90%DA%89%D9%8A%D8%A7:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content.  Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.  However,    The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.  
 fahim ullah kama که چیرې ستا سو په   کې ویروس شتون ولری نو څنگه پوهیدای شۍ چې زما کمپیوټر په ویروس ککړ دی یوڅو اړین ټکي درپه گوته کوم. د کمپیوټر ویروس یو ډیر زیا نمن شی دی.ځکه ډیر ځله د کمپیوټر کارونکي ته د ویروس دشتون معلوما ت نه کیږي او کله چې کارونکی د ویروس په شتون پوه شي نو وخت له وخته تیروي او ویروس خپل کار کړی وي.داسې ډیرې نښې نښانې شته چې له پلوه یی تا سې په کمپیوټر کې د ویروس دشتون شک کولای شی. لاندینۍ نښې نښا نې اړینه نه ده چې خا مخا به دویروس له شتون نه پیدا شوې وي، ځکه داسې نور ډیر عوامل هم شته چې په کمپیوټر کې دا راز نښې نښانې رامنځته کړي. مگر که چیرې تا سو په خپل کمپیوټر کې یوه هم له دغو لاندینیو نښو څخه ومونده نو ښه به دا وي چې دیوه ښه Antivirus پوستکالي(سا فټ ویر) په مټ خپل کمپیوټر Scan کړۍ. نوموړ ې نښا نې په لاندې ډول دي:  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . ==د ویروسی کمپیوتر نښی==
 ددې لپاره ویروس خپل ځان Replicate دځان په څیر هو به هو د بل ویروس تولیدولو ته وایي.) کړي په کمپیوټر کې د Exe یا Com فا یلونو سره ځان سریښوي.او دا کار نوموړی ویروس څو څو ځله تکراروي ددویروس ددې کار له امله د نوموړو یادو شویو فایلونو میچ (size) ډیر غوټیږي له همدې امله نوموړي فا یلونه په هارډیسک باندې ډیر ځای نیسي. پس که داسې ویروس په خپل وخت ونه نیول شي نودنوموړي ویروس د وار په وار Replication څخه کارونکی په هارډیسک کې دځای دکمښت سره مخامخ کیږی.که چیری ستا سو په کمپیوټر کې د CAD روستاړي لرونکې پوستکا لې او یا هم د Graphics لپاره کارونکي پوستکالي شتون ولري نو داهم ستاسو د هارډیسک ډیر ځای نیسي.په هر حال ددغې پورتنۍ نښې له ښکاره کیدلو سره په خپل کمپوټر با ندې د Antivirus پوستکالی وچلوۍ.
 ډیرو ښا غلیو او آغلیو په پورتنۍ جمله کې Activity د فعا لیت اوLED د 
Light Emitting Diode په مانا دی. چې د رڼا ورکونکي تیوب ما نا ترې اخستلی شو. 
ستا سو د کمپوټر په مخه کې یووړوکی څراغ شتون لری چې د هارډیسک په نښان سره ښودل شوی. اوس نو کله چې تا سو کوم پروگرام یا پوستکا لی کا روی یعنې د پوستکا لي په کارولو بوخت یا ست او یا مو کوم پوستکالی تا زه چا لان کړۍ تر څو کار ترې واخلۍ په دې دواړو وختونوکې د هارډیسک Activity LED با ید وپړکیږي یا نې Flashing با ید وکړي. مگر که چیرې تاسو په پورتنیو داوړو حا لتونوکې قرار نه لری او بیا موهم د هارډیسک Activity LED په وار وار پړکیږي نو گمان کیږي چې ویروس Replication پیل کړی او دوام لري. په دې حال کې هم دAntivirus دپوستکالي چلول اړین بریښي.
 که چیرې تا سوفکر کوی چې کمپیوټر مو ورځ په ورځ پڅیږي په دې مانا چې که چیرې ستاسو کمپیوټر مخکې په دودقیقو کې Boot کیدلو او اوس ډیر ځنډ با سي تر څو Boot شي او یا هم که چیرې ستا سو د Ms-Word پوستکالی مخکې په یوه دقیقه کې چا لانیدلو او اوس په ډیر ځنډ چا لانیږي نو د ویروس د شتون ډیره کره نښه کیدلای شي نو اړینه ده خپل د Antivirus پوستکا لی وچلوی. دا یوه ډیره کره او ټا کنیزه نښه ده چې ډیر دوستا ن له دې ستونزې څخه ماته شکا یت کوي.
 Hello there,
 My name is Aly and I would like to know if you would have any interest to have your website here at wikipedia.org promoted as a resource on our blog alychidesign.com ? 
 We are in the midst of updating our broken link resources to include current and up to date resources for our readers. Our resource links are manually approved allowing us to mark a link as a do-follow link as well
.
If you may be interested please in being included as a resource on our blog, please let me know.
 Thanks,
Aly
 ډیر هغه پوستکا لي چې د Bugs لرونکي وي کمپیوټر په ټپه دروي همدا راز د Mother Board ا و یا Memory دخرابي له امله هم کمپیوټرپه وار وار په ټپه دریږي او همداراز د ویروس شتون هم کولای شي کمپیوټر په ټپه ودروي. په دې حا لت کې هم خپل د Antivirus پوستکا لی وچلوۍ.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articlwes under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://oc.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A8dia:Avertiments_generals

Content: Wikipèdia es une enciclopèdia fondada sus la tecnologia  . Aquesta tecnologia permet a tot visitor,  , de modificar a tot moment lo contengut de las paginas e de ne crear. Alara, se vesètz un problèma dins un article, podètz  :
 Per vos ajudar a modificar Wikipèdia, podètz consultar l'  e las   (especialament las  ).
 Aquesta libertat d'accès a per consequéncia que qualqu'un pòt introduire, deliberadament o non, d’errors, d’informacions falsificadas o biaissadas, que demoraràn presentas fins que qualqu'un mai las corregisca.
 En definitiva, coma per cada font d'informacion qu’utilizatz, vos es recomandat de far jogar vòstre  . Per vos permetre de jutjar rapidament de la qualitat d'un article sus Wikipèdia, se conselha de procedir lo pus sovent possible als dos contraròtles seguents : 
 Divèrs avertiments se pòdon plaçar a la cima dels articles per senhalar un desacòrdi de neutralitat, de pertinéncia, o encara de lacunas o d’errors. Wikipèdia es une enciclopèdia « viva » que convida sos legeires a participar a un procès de collaboracion dobèrt. En responsa a vòstres dobtes, la consultacion de las paginas seguentas serà segurament utila :
  :
 Se fornís pas cap de garantida concernent la pertinéncia, la fisabilitat ni la quita legalitat dels sites qu'i menan los ligams extèrnes que pòdon trobar dins las paginas de Wikipèdia.


URL: https://roa-tara.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 
  è un'enciclopedia online a contenuto aperto, frutto del lavoro di un insieme di volontari, con lo scopo di sviluppare una fonte di conoscenza comune e libera.
Sebbene esistano   e un sistema non ufficiale di gestione anonimo e volontario, la struttura dell'enciclopedia permette a chiunque di modificare il contenuto delle sue pagine.
 È pertanto necessario tenere presente che:
 .
Ciò, naturalmente, non implica la mancanza di informazioni interessanti o accurate, ma è importante sapere che su Wikipedia ogni contenuto può essere modificato, alterato o   da chiunque.
Ciò significa che ogni dato o informazione presente nelle voci di Wikipedia potrebbe non rappresentare adeguatamente l'effettivo stato della conoscenza condivisa o la verità dei fatti.
Alcune edizioni linguistiche di Wikipedia hanno adottato  , ma sempre in forma volontaria e senza garanzia.
La cosa più vicina a questo sistema di selezione è l'attuale sezione « »; tuttavia anche le voci in essa presenti potrebbero essere state successivamente modificate senza il controllo necessario.
 
 Le informazioni riportate sono fornite in maniera libera e gratuita.
Nessun tipo di accordo o contratto sussiste — sia pure in forma implicita — tra l'utente e i proprietari del sito, gli utenti, i proprietari dei server, gli amministratori del progetto, gli amministratori di sistema o qualsiasi altra parte   a Wikipedia o ai progetti collaterali.
 Qualsiasi  , marchio di fabbrica, marchio collettivo, diritto di design, diritto d'immagine, di tutela dei propri dati personali o altri diritti simili, menzionati o utilizzati nelle voci di Wikipedia, è di proprietà dei legittimi detentori.
Tutto il materiale che si trova su Wikipedia è pubblicato dagli utenti (dei quali è conservato l'indirizzo IP a scopo cautelativo) secondo quanto previsto dalle   (CC BY-SA) e   (GFDL).
Wikipedia non può garantire che gli utenti abbiano effettivamente ottemperato a quanto richiesto da dette licenze e non abbiano, quindi, leso alcun diritto: la responsabilità della pubblicazione rimane perciò esclusivamente in capo agli utenti.
Laddove non diversamente dichiarato i siti di Wikipedia e Wikimedia non sono né associati a, né approvati da alcuno dei detentori di tali diritti.
  ed è espressamente vietato.
 È garantita una licenza limitata di copia dei contenuti (secondo le condizioni previste dalle licenze CC BY-SA e GFDL), ma ciò non crea né implica alcuna responsabilità contrattuale o extra-contrattuale da parte di Wikipedia o di uno qualsiasi dei suoi agenti, membri, organizzatori o altre parti.
 
 Le informazioni presenti potrebbero violare delle leggi del luogo di loro fruizione.
Wikipedia non incoraggia le violazioni di legge ma, siccome le informazioni sono conservate su server posti in  , negli  , si assumono a riferimento le disposizioni generali stabilite dal   della   e dalla   delle  .
Alcune legislazioni nazionali potrebbero non accordare una talmente ampia protezione della libertà di parola: Wikipedia non è responsabile per eventuali utilizzi dei propri contenuti considerati illeciti in tali Paesi.
 
 Leggere anche le avvertenze     e   per le liberatorie o per clausole specifiche di esclusione di responsabilità (disclaimer).
  in quanto essa è un'associazione volontaria di individui solo parzialmente strutturata e sviluppata liberamente per creare risorse educative, culturali e informative, online e aperte.
  e   circa il loro utilizzo o modifica, a parte il rispetto delle licenze CC BY-SA e GFDL; parimenti nessuno in Wikipedia è responsabile per il fatto che chicchessia cambi, modifichi o rimuova qualsiasi informazione che chiunque altro o egli medesimo possa aver inserito su Wikipedia o su uno qualsiasi dei suoi progetti associati.
 Il contenuto di questa pagina si applica a   presente in Wikipedia.
 Grazie per il tempo speso per la lettura di queste avvertenze generali, e auguri per una navigazione utile e piacevole su Wikipedia.


URL: https://nn.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Atterhald

Content: Nynorsk Wikipedia er eit oppslagsverk som ligg tilgjengeleg på Internett. Innhaldet er ope, noko som vil seie at det blir skapt av ei frivillig samanslutning av einskildpersonar og -grupper, som utviklar ein felles ressurs av menneskeleg kunnskap. 
 Prosjektreglane tillèt kvar og ein med internettsamband og ein nettlesar å endre på innhaldet som finst her. Difor er det som står i Wikipedia ikkje nødvendigvis gjennomgått av profesjonelle med spesialkunnskap innanfor dei ulike områda, som er naudsynt for å sikre fullstendige, presise og pålitelege opplysingar.
 Ingen av forfattarane, bidragsytarane, sponsorane, administratorane, systemoperatørane eller nokre andre med tilknyting til Wikipedia kan gjerast ansvarleg for at det finst unøyaktig informasjon, eller for andre sin bruk av dei opplysningane som ligg på desse nettsidene eller som blir nådd via lenkjer derfrå.
 Dei som har behov for presis rådgjeving – til dømes medisinsk, juridisk eller økonomisk – er bedne om å oppsøkja ein kunnig som har rett til å drive ei verksemd eller som har spesialkunnskap på det relevante fagområdet.
 Ver venleg å sørgje for at du forstår at opplysningane her er stilte gratis til rådvelde for frivillig bruk, og at inga form for avtale eller kontrakt er oppretta mellom deg og korkje eigarar eller andre brukarar av denne nettstaden, eigarane av lagringsplassen der innhaldet ligg, den einskilde Wikipedia-bidragsytaren, prosjektadministratoren, systemoperatøren eller nokon annan person i tilslutning til dette prosjektet eller systerprosjekt som kan gje grunnlag for å rette krav mot dei. Du blir tildelt eit avgrensa bruksløyve til å kopiere kva som helst av innhald frå denne nettstaden, men det skaper ikkje og impliserer ikkje noko kontraktsmessig eller utanomkontraktsleg ansvar for Wikipedia eller nokre av representantane deira, medlemmer, organisatorar eller andre brukarar.
 Det finst ingen avtale eller forståing mellom deg og Wikipedia kring bruk av innhaldet eller endring av innhaldet utover    og   (GFDL),  på same viset er det ingen knytt til Wikipedia som kan stillast til ansvar viss nokon har endra, redigert eller fjerna informasjon som du har lagt inn i Wikipedia.


URL: https://ps.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%D9%8A%DA%A9%D9%8A%D9%BE%DB%90%DA%89%D9%8A%D8%A7:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content.  Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.  However,    The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.  
 fahim ullah kama که چیرې ستا سو په   کې ویروس شتون ولری نو څنگه پوهیدای شۍ چې زما کمپیوټر په ویروس ککړ دی یوڅو اړین ټکي درپه گوته کوم. د کمپیوټر ویروس یو ډیر زیا نمن شی دی.ځکه ډیر ځله د کمپیوټر کارونکي ته د ویروس دشتون معلوما ت نه کیږي او کله چې کارونکی د ویروس په شتون پوه شي نو وخت له وخته تیروي او ویروس خپل کار کړی وي.داسې ډیرې نښې نښانې شته چې له پلوه یی تا سې په کمپیوټر کې د ویروس دشتون شک کولای شی. لاندینۍ نښې نښا نې اړینه نه ده چې خا مخا به دویروس له شتون نه پیدا شوې وي، ځکه داسې نور ډیر عوامل هم شته چې په کمپیوټر کې دا راز نښې نښانې رامنځته کړي. مگر که چیرې تا سو په خپل کمپیوټر کې یوه هم له دغو لاندینیو نښو څخه ومونده نو ښه به دا وي چې دیوه ښه Antivirus پوستکالي(سا فټ ویر) په مټ خپل کمپیوټر Scan کړۍ. نوموړ ې نښا نې په لاندې ډول دي:  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . ==د ویروسی کمپیوتر نښی==
 ددې لپاره ویروس خپل ځان Replicate دځان په څیر هو به هو د بل ویروس تولیدولو ته وایي.) کړي په کمپیوټر کې د Exe یا Com فا یلونو سره ځان سریښوي.او دا کار نوموړی ویروس څو څو ځله تکراروي ددویروس ددې کار له امله د نوموړو یادو شویو فایلونو میچ (size) ډیر غوټیږي له همدې امله نوموړي فا یلونه په هارډیسک باندې ډیر ځای نیسي. پس که داسې ویروس په خپل وخت ونه نیول شي نودنوموړي ویروس د وار په وار Replication څخه کارونکی په هارډیسک کې دځای دکمښت سره مخامخ کیږی.که چیری ستا سو په کمپیوټر کې د CAD روستاړي لرونکې پوستکا لې او یا هم د Graphics لپاره کارونکي پوستکالي شتون ولري نو داهم ستاسو د هارډیسک ډیر ځای نیسي.په هر حال ددغې پورتنۍ نښې له ښکاره کیدلو سره په خپل کمپوټر با ندې د Antivirus پوستکالی وچلوۍ.
 ډیرو ښا غلیو او آغلیو په پورتنۍ جمله کې Activity د فعا لیت اوLED د 
Light Emitting Diode په مانا دی. چې د رڼا ورکونکي تیوب ما نا ترې اخستلی شو. 
ستا سو د کمپوټر په مخه کې یووړوکی څراغ شتون لری چې د هارډیسک په نښان سره ښودل شوی. اوس نو کله چې تا سو کوم پروگرام یا پوستکا لی کا روی یعنې د پوستکا لي په کارولو بوخت یا ست او یا مو کوم پوستکالی تا زه چا لان کړۍ تر څو کار ترې واخلۍ په دې دواړو وختونوکې د هارډیسک Activity LED با ید وپړکیږي یا نې Flashing با ید وکړي. مگر که چیرې تاسو په پورتنیو داوړو حا لتونوکې قرار نه لری او بیا موهم د هارډیسک Activity LED په وار وار پړکیږي نو گمان کیږي چې ویروس Replication پیل کړی او دوام لري. په دې حال کې هم دAntivirus دپوستکالي چلول اړین بریښي.
 که چیرې تا سوفکر کوی چې کمپیوټر مو ورځ په ورځ پڅیږي په دې مانا چې که چیرې ستاسو کمپیوټر مخکې په دودقیقو کې Boot کیدلو او اوس ډیر ځنډ با سي تر څو Boot شي او یا هم که چیرې ستا سو د Ms-Word پوستکالی مخکې په یوه دقیقه کې چا لانیدلو او اوس په ډیر ځنډ چا لانیږي نو د ویروس د شتون ډیره کره نښه کیدلای شي نو اړینه ده خپل د Antivirus پوستکا لی وچلوی. دا یوه ډیره کره او ټا کنیزه نښه ده چې ډیر دوستا ن له دې ستونزې څخه ماته شکا یت کوي.
 Hello there,
 My name is Aly and I would like to know if you would have any interest to have your website here at wikipedia.org promoted as a resource on our blog alychidesign.com ? 
 We are in the midst of updating our broken link resources to include current and up to date resources for our readers. Our resource links are manually approved allowing us to mark a link as a do-follow link as well
.
If you may be interested please in being included as a resource on our blog, please let me know.
 Thanks,
Aly
 ډیر هغه پوستکا لي چې د Bugs لرونکي وي کمپیوټر په ټپه دروي همدا راز د Mother Board ا و یا Memory دخرابي له امله هم کمپیوټرپه وار وار په ټپه دریږي او همداراز د ویروس شتون هم کولای شي کمپیوټر په ټپه ودروي. په دې حا لت کې هم خپل د Antivirus پوستکا لی وچلوۍ.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articlwes under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://oc.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A8dia:Avertiments_generals

Content: Wikipèdia es une enciclopèdia fondada sus la tecnologia  . Aquesta tecnologia permet a tot visitor,  , de modificar a tot moment lo contengut de las paginas e de ne crear. Alara, se vesètz un problèma dins un article, podètz  :
 Per vos ajudar a modificar Wikipèdia, podètz consultar l'  e las   (especialament las  ).
 Aquesta libertat d'accès a per consequéncia que qualqu'un pòt introduire, deliberadament o non, d’errors, d’informacions falsificadas o biaissadas, que demoraràn presentas fins que qualqu'un mai las corregisca.
 En definitiva, coma per cada font d'informacion qu’utilizatz, vos es recomandat de far jogar vòstre  . Per vos permetre de jutjar rapidament de la qualitat d'un article sus Wikipèdia, se conselha de procedir lo pus sovent possible als dos contraròtles seguents : 
 Divèrs avertiments se pòdon plaçar a la cima dels articles per senhalar un desacòrdi de neutralitat, de pertinéncia, o encara de lacunas o d’errors. Wikipèdia es une enciclopèdia « viva » que convida sos legeires a participar a un procès de collaboracion dobèrt. En responsa a vòstres dobtes, la consultacion de las paginas seguentas serà segurament utila :
  :
 Se fornís pas cap de garantida concernent la pertinéncia, la fisabilitat ni la quita legalitat dels sites qu'i menan los ligams extèrnes que pòdon trobar dins las paginas de Wikipèdia.


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&centralAuthAutologinTried=1&centralAuthError=Not+centrally+logged+in&returnto=Artificial+intelligence

Content: This page is not available in other languages.

URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Artificial+intelligence

Content: edits articles recent contributors This page is not available in other languages.

URL: https://sv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Allm%C3%A4nt_f%C3%B6rbeh%C3%A5ll

Content: Alla som har tillgång till internet kan skriva på Wikipedia och påverka dess innehåll. Detta är en av Wikipedias styrkor, men också en av dess svagheter. Inga garantier lämnas för korrektheten i innehållet. Tänk på att Wikipedias innehåll, som lagras på servrar i  , kan vara olagligt i det land där du bor.


URL: https://nn.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Atterhald

Content: Nynorsk Wikipedia er eit oppslagsverk som ligg tilgjengeleg på Internett. Innhaldet er ope, noko som vil seie at det blir skapt av ei frivillig samanslutning av einskildpersonar og -grupper, som utviklar ein felles ressurs av menneskeleg kunnskap. 
 Prosjektreglane tillèt kvar og ein med internettsamband og ein nettlesar å endre på innhaldet som finst her. Difor er det som står i Wikipedia ikkje nødvendigvis gjennomgått av profesjonelle med spesialkunnskap innanfor dei ulike områda, som er naudsynt for å sikre fullstendige, presise og pålitelege opplysingar.
 Ingen av forfattarane, bidragsytarane, sponsorane, administratorane, systemoperatørane eller nokre andre med tilknyting til Wikipedia kan gjerast ansvarleg for at det finst unøyaktig informasjon, eller for andre sin bruk av dei opplysningane som ligg på desse nettsidene eller som blir nådd via lenkjer derfrå.
 Dei som har behov for presis rådgjeving – til dømes medisinsk, juridisk eller økonomisk – er bedne om å oppsøkja ein kunnig som har rett til å drive ei verksemd eller som har spesialkunnskap på det relevante fagområdet.
 Ver venleg å sørgje for at du forstår at opplysningane her er stilte gratis til rådvelde for frivillig bruk, og at inga form for avtale eller kontrakt er oppretta mellom deg og korkje eigarar eller andre brukarar av denne nettstaden, eigarane av lagringsplassen der innhaldet ligg, den einskilde Wikipedia-bidragsytaren, prosjektadministratoren, systemoperatøren eller nokon annan person i tilslutning til dette prosjektet eller systerprosjekt som kan gje grunnlag for å rette krav mot dei. Du blir tildelt eit avgrensa bruksløyve til å kopiere kva som helst av innhald frå denne nettstaden, men det skaper ikkje og impliserer ikkje noko kontraktsmessig eller utanomkontraktsleg ansvar for Wikipedia eller nokre av representantane deira, medlemmer, organisatorar eller andre brukarar.
 Det finst ingen avtale eller forståing mellom deg og Wikipedia kring bruk av innhaldet eller endring av innhaldet utover    og   (GFDL),  på same viset er det ingen knytt til Wikipedia som kan stillast til ansvar viss nokon har endra, redigert eller fjerna informasjon som du har lagt inn i Wikipedia.


URL: https://or.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%AC%89%E0%AC%87%E0%AC%95%E0%AC%BF%E0%AC%AA%E0%AC%BF%E0%AC%A1%E0%AC%BC%E0%AC%BF%E0%AC%86:%E0%AC%86%E0%AC%AE%E0%AD%87_%E0%AC%A6%E0%AC%BE%E0%AD%9F%E0%AD%80_%E0%AC%A8%E0%AD%8B%E0%AC%B9%E0%AD%81%E0%AC%81

Content: Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content.  Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.  However,    The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.  Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works also have  .
 We are working on ways to select and highlight reliable versions of articles.  Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content.  However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever.  Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC-BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or deceased recently.  The use of images of living or recently deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.   
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://fi.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Vastuuvapaus

Content: Wikipedia on vapaasti muokattavissa oleva tietosanakirja. Kuka tahansa, jolla on Internet-yhteys, voi muokata Wikipedian artikkeleja.
 Wikipediasta löytyy paljon arvokasta ja totuudenmukaista tietoa, mutta   Vaikka virheellisiä tietoja pyritään korjaamaan Wikipediassa, kenelläkään ei ole velvollisuutta korjata niitä, ja tästä syystä kaikki Wikipediasta löytyvä tieto toimitetaan lukijalle ilman takuuta oikeellisuudesta tai sopivuudesta mihinkään käyttötarkoitukseen.
 Wikipediassa oleva tieto tarjotaan käyttäjille ilmaiseksi ja ilman velvoitetta; tämän sivuston käyttö ei luo käyttäjän, Wikipedian tai kenenkään Wikipediaan liittyvän henkilön välille sopimus- tai vastuusuhdetta. Kenellä tahansa on rajattu oikeus käyttää ja kopioida materiaalia Wikipediasta, mutta tämä käyttöoikeus ei muodosta tai implikoi minkäänlaista sopimuksellista tai muunkaltaista korvausvastuuta.
 Wikipedia saattaa sisältää muiden osapuolien tavaramerkkejä tai muita lailla suojattuja immateriaalisia hyödykkeitä. Ne kuuluvat omistajilleen eikä niiden käyttö Wikipediassa anna kenellekään oikeutta käyttää niitä muussa yhteydessä. Jos toisin ei mainita, Wikipedialla ei ole tosiasiallista suhdetta tavaramerkkeihin tai niiden omistajiin eikä Wikipedia siten voi myöntää kenellekään oikeutta käyttää kyseessä olevia tavaramerkkejä.
 Wikipediasta löytyvä tieto saattaa rikkoa lakia joissain valtioissa, joiden alueelta Wikipediaa luetaan. Wikipedia ei rohkaise tai yllytä rikkomaan paikallisia lakeja tai asetuksia, mutta koska Wikipedian tieto on fyysisesti talletettu  , Wikipedia nauttii tallennuspaikassaan Yhdysvaltain perustuslain ja   yleismaailmallisen ihmisoikeuksien julistuksen kaikille suomaa  . Kaikkien valtioiden lait eivät välttämättä takaa tätä vapautta, ja siksi Wikipedia ei voi olla vastuussa mahdollisista rikkomuksista, joita Wikipedian käyttäjä tekee lukiessaan Wikipediaa tai luodessaan hyperlinkkejä muista hyperdokumenteista Wikipediaan.
 
 


URL: https://or.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%AC%89%E0%AC%87%E0%AC%95%E0%AC%BF%E0%AC%AA%E0%AC%BF%E0%AC%A1%E0%AC%BC%E0%AC%BF%E0%AC%86:%E0%AC%86%E0%AC%AE%E0%AD%87_%E0%AC%A6%E0%AC%BE%E0%AD%9F%E0%AD%80_%E0%AC%A8%E0%AD%8B%E0%AC%B9%E0%AD%81%E0%AC%81

Content: Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content.  Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.  However,    The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.  Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works also have  .
 We are working on ways to select and highlight reliable versions of articles.  Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content.  However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever.  Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC-BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or deceased recently.  The use of images of living or recently deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.   
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://su.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Bantahan_umum

Content:  nyaéta énsiklopédi nemrak ( ) online, anu hartina mangrupa hiji gempungan sukaréla nu ngembangkeun hiji sumberdaya umum pangaweruh. Strukturna dijieun  sangkan bisa dipaké ku saha baé nu miboga sambungan Internét sarta     pikeun ngarobah eusi nu kapanggih di dieu. ku sabab kitu, perlu dipikanyaho yén nu aya di dieu merlukeun ulasan para profésional husus nu mémang kaweruhna dipikabutuh pikeun nyadiakeun informasi ngeunaan naon baé dina   kalawan lengkep, akurat, sarta bisa dipercaya.
 Éta hal téh teu ngandung harti yén Anjeun moal manggih informasi nu boga ajén sarta akurat dina  , tapi ogé, mugia kauninga yén   Eusina bisa cikénéh pisan robah, diruksak, atawa diganggu ku jalma séjén nu pamanggihna teu saluyu jeung jihat pangaweruh dina widang husus nu kabeneran keur dipaluruh ku Anjeun. Urang keur ngusahakeun cara pikeun milih sarta nyatujuan vérsi artikel nu bisa leuwih dipercaya, tapi tetep tanpa jaminan. Nu pangdeukeutna tina usaha ieu nyaéta ku ayana prosés  , tapi artikel nu éta gé bisa waé  robah pas pisan méméh anjeun muka.
 Anjeun geus dianggap ngarti yén sagala informasi nu aya di dieu téh disadiakeun kalawan bébas tur haratis, sarta teu aya perjangjian atawa kontrak naon ogé anu dijieun antara Anjeun jeung pamilik atawa pamaké situs ieu, pamilik server tempatna disimpen, pribadi kontributor  , administrator proyék mana baé,   atawa singsaha baé nu   jeung proyék ieu atawa subyék proyék   kana klaim Anjeun ka maranéhna sacara langsung. Anjeun dibéré ijin nu diwates pikeun nyalin sagala rupa nu aya dina ieu situs. Éta hal teu matak nyieun atawa nyababkeun kontrak naon baé atawa kontrak tambahan pikeun Wikipedia atawa agén, anggota, pangurus, atawa pamaké séjénna.    
 Mérk dagang, mérk layanan, mérks koléktif, hak desain, hak pribadi atawa hak sarupa anu disebutkeun, anu dipaké atawa dikutip dina artikel tina Wikipédia nyaéta milik masing-masing nu bogana. Dipakéna dina Wikipédia lain harti Anjeun bisa make pikeun tujuan lain salian pikeun eusi anu sarua atawa mirip dijieun ku panulis asli tia artikel Wikipedia ieu di handapeun lisénsi GDFL. Iwal situs Wikipedia jeung Wikimedia nyebutkeun lain deui, anu teu dirojong atawa boga hubungan jeung salah sahiji nu nyepeng éta hak, sarta Wikipédia teu bisa mere hak pikeun make bahan-bahan lain anu dilindung.  .
 Kudu dicatet yén informasi anu kapanggih di dieu mungkin baé ngalanggar hukum nagara atawa yurisdiksi ti tempat Anjeun ningali informasi ieu.   teu ngadorong pikeun ngalanggar hukum naon baé, tapi lantara ieu informasi disimpen di nagara bagian   di  , mangka sagala rupa eusina aya dina referénsi panyalindungan   di handapeun prinsip-prinsip Deklarasi Universal Hak Asasi Manusia ti  . Undang-undang di nagara Anjeun mungkin teu mikawanoh sacara lega panyalindung kabébasan nyarita minangka undang-undang Amérika Serikat atawa prinsip-prinsip Piagem PBB, sarta ku kituna   teu bisa tanggung jawab kana poténsi pelanggaran hukum samodél kitu kudu ditumbukeun kana domain ieu atawa  maké informasi anu dikandung dina ieu kaca.
 Wikipedia téh teu saragem dina prosés ngulas artikelna sacara babarengan, bisa waé hiji artikel aya anu ngoréksi kasalahan atawa ngahapus saran anu salah. Maranéhna teu boga kawajiban hukum pikeun ngalakukeun éta hal, nu matak sakabéh informasi anu dibaca di dieu teu dibarengan ku jaminan kaluyuan pikeun tujuan naoan waé atawa maké naon waé.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the  ; neither is anyone at   responsible should soméone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Hatur nuhun parantos ngaluangkeun waktosna kanggo maos kaca ieu, mangga dihaturanan kanggo ngaraoskeun pangalaman di  . 


URL: https://sh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedija:Op%C4%87e_odricanje_odgovornosti

Content: W 
  je internetska enciklopedija otvorenog sadržaja koja funkcionira na temelju volonterske suradnje pojedinaca i skupina pojedinaca, s zajedničkim ciljem stvaranja izvora ljudskog znanja. Ustrojstvo projekta omogućava svakoj osobi s vezom na Internet i preglednikom World Wide Weba mijenjanje sadržaja enciklopedije. Molimo shvatite da nijedan podatak koji ovdje pronađete nije nužno provjeren od strane profesionalaca, niti ovdjeprisutni mogu osigurati potpunu, točnu ili pouzdanu informaciju.
 To ne znači da u   nećete pribaviti vrijednu i točnu informaciju, naprotiv, najčešće hoćete. Međutim,    Sadržaj članaka može u svakom trenutku biti izmijenjen, vandaliziran ili preinačen od strane pojedinca čije mišljenje nije odraz znanja iz tog područja.  
 Trenutno radimo na načinima odabiranja i isticanja pouzdanih inačica članaka. Naša aktivna zajednica urednika pri praćenju i mijenjanju sadržaja koristi alate poput pohrane   i  . No   se ne pregledava ujednačeno, a čitatelji se, iako mogu ispravljati greške, ne nalaze pod pravnom obvezom, pa informacije koje ovdje pročitate nemaju naznačeno jamstvo ispravnosti za bilo kakvo korištenje. Čak i ravnopravno i nepristrano vrednovani ili   zadržavaju vjerojatnost naknadnog neprikladnog uređivanja.
 Molimo, shvatite da doprinose u vidu informacija dajete slobodno, i pritom ne dolazi ni do kakavog sporazuma između vas i vlasnika ili korisnika stranica, vlasnika poslužitelja na kojima su postavljene, pojedinih suradnika  , administratora projekta, "sysopa" ili ikoga tko je   s ovim ili nekim od sestrinskih projekata. Ta ista osoba ne može izravno odgovarati na vaše optužbe. Dodijeljena vam je ograničena licenca s pravom kopiranja cjelokupnog sadržaja ovih stranica, no ona ne podrazumijeva niti dovodi do ugovorne ili izvanugovorne odgovornosti   ili njenih agenata, članova, organizatora ili drugih korisnika.
  u svezi s korištenjem ili mijenjanjem ovdje prisutnih podataka je   (GFDL); nijedan član   nije odgovoran za promjene, preinake, modifikacije ili brisanje podataka koje ste dodali   ili ijednom drugom povezanom projektu.
 Zaštitni znakovi, zbirni i znakovi službe, patentna prava, prava identiteta ili slična spomenuta, korištena ili u Wikipedijinim člancima navedena prava, su imovina svojih vlasnika. Njihova pojavnost na ovim stranicama ne znači da ih možete koristiti za svrhu drugačiju od iste ili slične informacijske namjene, a u skladu s namjerom autora enciklopedijskih članaka u skladu s GFDL dozvolom. Osim ako nije drugačije navedeno,   Wikipedia i Wikimedia ne podržavaju niti su ni na koji način povezani s nositeljima tih prava, pa kao takva   ne jamči pravo na korištenje inače zaštićene građe.  
 Podaci objavljeni u   možda krše zakone države iz koje pregledate te podatke. Wikipedijina baza podataka nalazi se na poslužitelju u saveznoj državi   u  , te se održava u skladu s uputama o čuvanju koje pružaju mjesni i federalni zakoni. Zakonska regulativa u vašoj zemlji možda ne štiti ili ne dopušta istu slobodu govora ili kopiranja.   ne potiče kršenje zakona, niti se može smatrati odgovornom za zlodjela koja proizlaze iz vašeg povezivanja na ovu domenu, korištenja, reprodukcije ili objavljivanja informacija koje ovdje pronađete.
 Ako trebate savjet u nekom području (medicina, pravo, financije, ili vezano uz određeni rizik), molimo potražite stručnjaka koji je licenciran, poznat ili prihvaćen u svom području. Za posebna odricanja pogledajte  ,   i  .
 Zahvaljujemo na vremenu koje ste utrošili na čitanje ove stranice; nastavite uživati u blagodatima  ! 


URL: https://no.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Generelle_forbehold

Content:  er en   som ligger tilgjengelig på  . Innholdet er åpent, det vil si at det skapes av en frivillig sammenslutning av enkeltpersoner og grupper, som utvikler en felles ressurs av menneskelig viten. Strukturen tillater enhver å endre på det innholdet som finnes her. Derfor er det som står i Wikipedia ikke nødvendigvis gjennomgått av profesjonelle med spesialkunnskap innenfor de ulike områder, som er nødvendige for å sikre fullstendige, presise og pålitelige opplysninger.
 Dette betyr ikke at man ikke kan finne mange verdifulle og nøyaktige opplysninger i Wikipedia, men   Opplysningene kan være forandret, vandalisert eller endret av noen med mangelfulle kunnskaper.
 Informasjonen på Wikipedia stilles gratis og frivillig til rådighet, og det etableres ingen form for avtale eller kontrakt som kan begrunne rettskrav fra brukerne av informasjonen direkte mot eierne av dette nettstedet, eierne av tjenerne det ligger på, de enkelte bidragsytere til Wikipedia, prosjektets administratorer, systemoperatører eller noen andre som   dette prosjektet eller dets søsterprosjekter.
 Du har en begrenset rett til å kopiere informasjon fra Wikipedia. Dette skaper ikke og det omfatter ikke noen kontraktslige eller utenomkontraktslige forpliktelser for Wikipedia, eller for noen av dets representanter, medlemmer, organisatorer eller andre brukere.
 Opplysninger som finnes på Wikipedia kan stride mot lovene i det landet eller rettsområdet hvor man ser disse opplysninger fra. Wikipedia oppfordrer ikke til lovovertredelse, men da informasjonen er lagret i delstaten Florida i USA, vedlikeholdes de med henvisning til den beskyttelse som sikres av   grunnlovs første tillegg og av FNs  .
 , da det er en frivillig sammenslutning av enkeltpersoner, som fritt har utviklet den for å skape forskjellige åpne ressurser av utdannelsesmessig, kulturell og informativ art på internettet.   og det finnes   angående bruk eller endring av opplysningene ut over  . Likeledes er ingen bidragsytere eller andre tilknyttet Wikipedia ansvarlig hvis noen skulle endre, redigere, modifisere eller fjerne noen av de opplysninger enkeltpersoner måtte legge inn på Wikipedia eller noen av dens tilknyttede prosjekter.
 Takk for at du har brukt tid på å lese denne siden.


URL: https://ckb.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%DB%8C%DA%A9%DB%8C%D9%BE%DB%8C%D8%AF%DB%8C%D8%A7:%D8%A8%DB%95%D8%B1%D9%BE%D8%B1%D8%B3%D9%86%DB%95%D8%A8%D9%88%D9%88%D9%86

Content: 
ویکیپیدیا ھیچ بەڵێنێک لەسەر ڕاستیبوون نادات.
 


URL: https://ne.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AA%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%A1%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%BE:%E0%A4%B8%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%AE%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%A8%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%AF_%E0%A4%85%E0%A4%B8%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B5%E0%A5%80%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%B0%E0%A5%8B%E0%A4%95%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%A4%E0%A4%BF

Content: विकिपिडिया एक वेब आधारित सहयोग-प्राप्त ज्ञानकोष हो,अर्थात्, यो मानव ज्ञानको साधारण संसाधन विकसित गर्नका लागि व्यक्तिहरु तथा समूहहरुको एक स्वैच्छिक संगठन हो। यस परियोजनाको संरचना अंतर्जाल संयोजनका साथ कुनै पनि व्यक्तिलाई यसका सामाग्रीहरुलाई परिवर्तन गर्ने अनुमति दिइन्छ। कृपया यो ध्यान राख्नुहोस् कि यो आवश्यक छैन कि यहाँ पाइएको सामाग्रीको विशेषज्ञहरु द्वारा सही तथा विश्वसनीय जानकारी दिनका लागि समीक्षा गरिएको छ।
 यसको यो तात्पर्य होइन कि विकिपिडियामा मूल्यवान तथा सही जानकारी पाइदैन ; अधिकांशतः यो सही नै हुनेछ। हुनत,   कुनै पनि लेखको सामाग्रीको हटाउन सकिन्छ, उत्पातको शिकार हुन सक्छ अथवा यस्तो व्यक्ति द्वारा बदलिन सक्छ  जो उ संगत क्षेत्रमा ज्ञानको अवस्थाले भिन्न विचार राख्न सक्छ। ध्यान दिनुहोस कि अधिक तर अन्य विकिपिडिया तथा सन्दर्भ कार्यहरुमा पनि   हुन्छन।


URL: https://sr.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%98%D0%B0:%D0%9E%D0%B4%D1%80%D0%B8%D1%86%D0%B0%D1%9A%D0%B5_%D0%BE%D0%B4%D0%B3%D0%BE%D0%B2%D0%BE%D1%80%D0%BD%D0%BE%D1%81%D1%82%D0%B8

Content: Википедија не гарантује потпуност ни тачност информација ни података
  је сарадничка енциклопедија отвореног садржаја на Интернету, тј. добровољно удружење група и појединаца који стварају и развијају заједнички извор људског сазнања. Сама структура пројекта омогућава свакоме са везом ка Интернету и мрежним прегледачем (Internet Explorer, Safari, Firefox, Mozilla, Opera,...), да мења његов садржај. Будите свесни да било шта што прочитате овде највероватније није прегледано од стране особа довољно стручних да вам пруже потпуне, тачне или поуздане информације.
 То не значи да на Википедији нећете наћи вредне и тачне информације; углавном хоћете. Ипак,   Садржај било којег чланка је могао у скорије време бити потпуно промењен, вандализован или измењен од стране некога чије мишљење не одговара стању сазнања из битних области. Имајте у виду да и друге енциклопедије и референтна дела имају  .
 Радимо на начинима за одабир и истицање поузданих верзија чланака. Наша активна заједница уредника користи алатке као што су   и  , да надгледа додавање новог и измену постојећег садржаја. Ипак, Википедија се не проверава равномерно; мада читаоци могу да исправљају грешке или да се упуштају у необавезне  ,  немају никакву правну обавезу да то раде. Стога све информације које овде прочитате прихватите без икакве наговештене гаранције подобности за било коју сврху или употребу. Чак и чланци који су издвојени необавезном заједничком провером или процесима за избор   могу касније бити уређени неприлично, и то тик пре него што их ви прегледате.
 Молимо вас да се потрудите да разумете да су информације које су овде пружене, пружене слободно и да не постоји никакав споразум или уговор начињен између вас и власника и корисника овог сајта, власника сервера на којем је смештен, појединачних доприносилаца  , било којег од администратора или „бирократа“ пројекта као ни било кога другог   са овим или његовим братским пројектима ко би био директно подложан вашим наводима против њих. Имате ограничену дозволу (лиценцу) да копирате било шта са овог сајта; она не ствара нити наговештава икакву уговорну или вануговорну одговорност   нити било кога од њених агената, чланова, организатора или других корисника.
 Не постоји   у вези вашег коришћења или модификовања ових информација ван оквира   (ГЛСД, GFDL); нити је ико на   одговоран ако неко измени, уреди, промени или уклони било коју информацију коју поставите на   или било који од њој повезаних пројеката.
 Било који од заштитних ( ), сервисних ( ) или збирних знакова ( ), права дизајна ( ), права личности ( ) или сличних права која се помињу, користе или наводе у чланцима енциклопедије Википедија су власништво њихових дотичних власника. Њихова употреба овде не наговештава да их можете користити у било коју другу сврху сем оне исте или сличне информативне употребе која је замишљена од стране оригиналних аутора ових Википедијиних чланака, под шемом лиценцирања ГЛСД. Осим ако је другачије наглашено, Википедија и Викимедијини сајтови нити подржавају нити су повезани са било којих од власника таквих права и   као таква не може да да никаква права на коришћење материјала који је иначе заштићен.  
 Објављивање информација и садржаја Википедије, може бити схваћено као кршење закона неких држава или правних ентитета из којих ви имате приступ овим информацијама. База података Википедије се чува на серверима у држави   ( ), те њихово одржавање и чување подлеже локалним и федералним законима тих правних ентитета и држава. Закони у вашој држави или правном ентитету могу заговарати и бранити сасвим другачије ставове у вези. Википедија не подржава нити охрабрује кршење ничијих закона, те стога не може одговарати за било какво кршење нечијих закона, ни бити одговорна за повезивање садржаја Википедије са интернет доменима, који подлежу другачијим законима, као ни за репродуковање или објављивање информација и података који се у њој садрже.
 Ако имате потребе за неким саветом (на пример: медицинским, правним, финансијским или у вези пословних ризика), молимо да се обратите професионалном стручњаку из области. Погледајте:  ,   и   за више специфична објашњења одрицања одговорности.
 Хвала на времену које сте утрошили да прочитате ову страницу, и желимо вам да уживате у коришћењу и прегледању Википедије.
 Иако је садржај других енциклопедија (које се разликују од Википедије по лиценци под којом се објављују), прегледан и потврђен од стране стручњака и професионалаца из разних области, ипак се не гарантује исправност, тачност и потпуност њиховог садржаја.
 


URL: https://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:%E5%85%8D%E8%B2%AC%E4%BA%8B%E9%A0%85

Content: 
 
 本サイトは、あなたに対して何も保証しません。本サイトの関係者（他の利用者も含む）は、あなたに対して一切責任を負いません。あなたが、本サイトを利用（閲覧、投稿、外部での再利用など全てを含む）する場合は、自己責任で行う必要があります。
 ウィキペディア (Wikipedia) は、無償のボランティアの参加者の貢献によって執筆、編集されている百科事典であり、その編集方針、百科事典作成プロジェクトとしての運営方針などもボランティアの議論によって決められています。プロジェクトへの参加資格の制限はなく、参加者には一定期間または一定量の貢献をすることなどの義務はありません。さらに、ウィキペディアでは、ウィキウィキウェブとよばれるシステムを採用することによって、ほぼ全てのページが、いつでも、誰にでも書き換えられるような状態にしてあります。
 ウィキペディアで使用しているソフトウェア は、無償のボランティアの貢献によって作成・改良されているものです。また、ウィキペディアの運営資金は、有志の寄付によって提供されており、アメリカ合衆国フロリダ州にある非営利団体「 」を通じて管理・提供されています。そして、ウィキペディアのサーバの大部分は、アメリカ合衆国フロリダ州にあります。
 ウィキペディアは200以上の言語にまたがって展開される であり、その参加者も世界中の多くの国々において活動しています。URLが   に始まる諸ページからなる本サイトは、そのウィキペディアの1つです。もちろん、日本語版の参加者にも、日本以外の世界のさまざまな地域から参加している人も大勢います。
 最後になりましたが、ウィキペディアでは、CC-BY-SA4.0 InternationalおよびGFDLを採用することによって、ウィキペディアが提供するコンテンツについて、公正な「引用」以上の自由な改変・再利用を容易にしています。つまり、著作権関係の煩雑な手続きを、 の概念によって簡略化しようというものです。
 
 
 
 本サイトのコンテンツに記載された会社名・製品名は、各法人または個人の登録商標または商標です。百科事典としての可読性を保つため、文中での®記号、™記号は省略しています。
 
 GFDL Version 1.2 の 第1項 (section 1) 10段落目にある “Warranty Disclaimers” （直訳すれば「保証否認声明書」）となるこの文書は、GFDLにおける免責を補完します。
 このページは、本サイトのみに適用されるもので、他のウィキメディア・プロジェクト（ウィキペディアの他の言語版やウィキブックスなどの姉妹プロジェクト）については、各々が提示する文書がありますので、それに従ってください。
 特に、それら他のウィキメディア・プロジェクトから翻訳されたページについては、元のプロジェクトで提供されている「免責事項」規定も合わせて適用する必要があります。他言語版ウィキペディアの「免責事項」は本ページからの他言語リンクを参照してください。そのほかのウィキメディア･プロジェクトの免責事項は、英語版の “Disclaimers” に相当する位置のリンクをたどってください。


URL: https://nds-nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:V%C3%B6%C3%A4rbehold

Content: Disse webstee wörden an-ebeujen deur de   (Wikimedia-stichting), in-eschreven bie   onder t nummer N03000005323. De Wikimedia Foundation is n stichting naor t recht van de Amerikaanse staot  . De bedenker van Wikipedie is  .
 Disse   wörden uuteindelik eschreven deur t publiek. Allewel zwat iederene die meedöt probeert um naor sekuur informatieve artikels te schrieven, kan der, wat dat de inhoud dervan angeet, gien garansie egeven wörden. Iederene die zien eigen kennelik as deskundig ziet, mag wiezigingen in de tekste anbrengen. Wel zal n dudelike fout in t algemeen aordig gauw opvallen en deur de aandere deelnemers verbeterd wörden. Zo as de ervaoring van de deelnemers leert, is der de neiging dat artikels alsmar langerder en nauwkeuriger wörden; aof en toe zal n terogval kunnen véúrkoemen.
 t Is dan oek verstaandig um naost disse ensyklopedie oek aandere naoslagwarken of spesialistiese boeken te raodplegen.
 A'j n   zien, ma'j t voort verbeteren, of - a'j niet zovere gaon willen - n opmarking hierover maken op de   die bie elke pagina heurt. We willen joe oek grege anbussen um dit te doon.
 De vriewilligers die disse ensyklopedie schrieven (en dat is t publiek, dus oek jiezelf) bin niet ansprakelik veur de juustheid van de egeven informasie. Ze kunnen zelfs niet garanderen dat de auteurs zörgvuldig te wark egaon bin bie t formuleren van de artikels. Gebruuk van de informasie is geheel vrie, mer wel op eigen risiko.
 Der bin gebrukers ( ) die extra meugelikheen op technies nivo hebben op disse webstee. Zo as t vortdoon van pagina's, beveiligen van pagina's en t ontnemen van schriefrechten an gebrukers. Dit bin meugelikheen die gewone gebrukers niet hebben. Disse groep vriewilligers bin niet de webmeisters mer eerder de huusbewaorders van Wikipedie. t Is n uutvoerende funksie. t Dagelikse bestuur de nds-nl-wiki geet feitelik uut van de gemeenschap van de nds-nl-wiki. 
 Op juridies nivo is de   de eindverantwoordelike. 
 As der volgens joe n probleem is, neem dan eerst kontakt op mit beheerders van de nds-nl-wiki. A'j n klachte sturen willen dan kan dat in t Engels, naor:
 Alle teksten op Wikipedie vallen onder de  -lisensie. A'j n stuk zien dat argens aanders van overeneumen is, zonder dat der toestemming van de auteursrechtbezitters egeven is, meld t dan of wiezig de tekste zelf.


URL: https://so.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Masuul_la%27aan_guud

Content: Ka: Wikipedia.
 
 


URL: https://ne.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AA%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%A1%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%BE:%E0%A4%B8%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%AE%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%A8%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%AF_%E0%A4%85%E0%A4%B8%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B5%E0%A5%80%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%B0%E0%A5%8B%E0%A4%95%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%A4%E0%A4%BF

Content: विकिपिडिया एक वेब आधारित सहयोग-प्राप्त ज्ञानकोष हो,अर्थात्, यो मानव ज्ञानको साधारण संसाधन विकसित गर्नका लागि व्यक्तिहरु तथा समूहहरुको एक स्वैच्छिक संगठन हो। यस परियोजनाको संरचना अंतर्जाल संयोजनका साथ कुनै पनि व्यक्तिलाई यसका सामाग्रीहरुलाई परिवर्तन गर्ने अनुमति दिइन्छ। कृपया यो ध्यान राख्नुहोस् कि यो आवश्यक छैन कि यहाँ पाइएको सामाग्रीको विशेषज्ञहरु द्वारा सही तथा विश्वसनीय जानकारी दिनका लागि समीक्षा गरिएको छ।
 यसको यो तात्पर्य होइन कि विकिपिडियामा मूल्यवान तथा सही जानकारी पाइदैन ; अधिकांशतः यो सही नै हुनेछ। हुनत,   कुनै पनि लेखको सामाग्रीको हटाउन सकिन्छ, उत्पातको शिकार हुन सक्छ अथवा यस्तो व्यक्ति द्वारा बदलिन सक्छ  जो उ संगत क्षेत्रमा ज्ञानको अवस्थाले भिन्न विचार राख्न सक्छ। ध्यान दिनुहोस कि अधिक तर अन्य विकिपिडिया तथा सन्दर्भ कार्यहरुमा पनि   हुन्छन।


URL: https://nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Algemeen_voorbehoud

Content: 

URL: https://sd.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%DA%AA%D9%8A%D9%BE%D9%8A%DA%8A%D9%8A%D8%A7:%D8%B9%D8%A7%D9%85_%D8%BA%D9%8A%D8%B1%D8%AC%D9%88%D8%A7%D8%A8%D8%AF%D8%A7%D8%B1%D9%8A%D9%86%D8%A7%D9%85%D9%88

Content: 
 
 ڪوئي به تجارتي نشان،خدمتي نشان،گڏيل نشان، خاڪن يانمونن جا حق يا ساڳيئيءَ طرح جا حق جيڪي ذڪر ڪيل هجن،استعمال ياوڪي پيڊيا انسائيڪلوپيڊيا ڄاڻ چيڪلو مضمونن ۾ حوالا ڏنل هجن، سي تمام نشان سندن متعلقا مالڪن جي ملڪيت آهين.
انهين نشانن جو هتي  استعمال ٿيل هجڻ جو اهو هرگز مقصد ناهي ته ڪو اوهين پڻ انهين کي ڪنهن به مقصد لاءِ ڪُتِب آڻيو سواءِ ان جي ته اهي وڪيپيڊيا مضمونن  لائسنز اسڪيم تحت جي اصل ليکڪ جي غور و مشاهدي سان معلوماتي استعمال ۾ آندا ويا آهن. ٻئي صورت ۾ جيسيتائين  بيان ڪيل  ڪنهن به تجارتي نشاني حقن جي رکندڙسان  وڪيپيڊيا ۽ وڪي ميڊيا سائيٽس  جو نه توثيق نڪي الحاق ٿيل آهي، جيئن ته وڪيپيڊيا انهن حقن جي استعمال ڪرڻ جي اجازت نٿي ڏئي سواءِ تحفظ شدا مواد لاءِ. انهين اموري ملڪيت جي تجارتي نشاني حقن جو توهان پاران استعمال توهانجي پنهنجي جوکم تحت هوندو.
 وڪيپيڊيا  ۾ شامل مواد  زندهه شخص يا  ويجهر ۾رهلت ڪري ويل بابت ٿي سگهي ٿو. ۽ انهن زندهه يا فوت ٿيل شخصيتن جي ڇاپن يا تصويرن جو استعمال ڪنهن دائري ڪارتحت، شخصي حقن تحت محدود آهي. انهن شين کي استعمال ڪرڻ کان پهرئين اها پڪ ڪريو ته انهين جي ارادي ڪيل استعمال ڪرڻ جو توهان کي ڪو قانوني حق هجي. توهان ان ڳالهه جا اڪيلا ذميوار آهيو ۽ پڪ ڪيو ته توهان ڪنهن ٻئي جي شخصي حقن جي خلاف ورزي نه ڪيو. 
 ٿي سهگي ٿو ته وڪي پيڊيا تي لڀيل، ڇاپيل ڄاڻ جو مواد انهيءَ ملڪ ۾ قانون يا دائري اختيار  جي خلاف ورزي هجي جتان اوهان اها ڄاڻ ڏسي رهيا هجو. وڪي پيڊيا جي ڊيٽابيس  آمريڪا ۾ ڪمپيوٽر سرورز تي ذخيرو ٿيل آهي ۽  مڪاني ۽  وفاقي قانون سان مهيا ٿيل تحفظات تحت برقرار آهي.
توهانجي ملڪ جو قانون ۽ دائري ڪار شايدساڳيئي طرح جي تقرير و تقسيم جو تحفظ فراهم نه ڪندو هجي. وڪي پيڊيا ڪنهن به قسم جي قانوني خلاف ورزي کي نٿي همٿائي ۽ اهڙي ڪنهن به قانوني خلاف ورزي جي ذميدار ناهي
 جيڪڏنهن توهان کي مخصوص صلاح مشوري جي ضرورت آهي(جيئن طبي،قانوني،مالي يا وري خطر انتظامي) ته لاڳاپيل شعبي جي  ڪنهن سنديافتا ماهر سان رابطو ڪريو.


URL: https://frr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Impressum

Content: 
 „Wikipedia, Di frii Ensiklopedii“ es ön't Nat öner   tö finj, üp Dütsk öner  .
 Des Websir uur fan di   önberen, wat bi dat   öner di Numer N03000005323 iinskrewen es. Di Wikimedia Foundation es en Stifting eeđer't Rocht fan di US-Bundsstaat  . Wan wat tö bisnaki es, da sket Dü des me  . biraili, wat uk di   ön di Sen fan di   es.
 Wan Dü wat fraagi of en Interview maaki wet, da kenst Dü uk hol jen fan di Nuurđfriisk Meaarberers fraagi, biluki diartö   en  .
 Wikipedia es en frii  . Muar au des  Projekt kenst Dü üp di Sir   sa üs iin ön di   lees. Di Biteekning „frii“ meent, dat Wikipedia-Bidrachen   sen. Em mut diareeđer alis priwaat oder kommertsiel binüti, wat em jir fent. Hur'ling dat ginau funktsjoniaret, staant langsen diarbi:   of  .  
Wan di Lir wat hoogstjüüri, ken di diarfuar forskelig Aarten binüti, en dö dit frii. Em skel langsen gur döörlees, hur'ling di Datei friidönen es. Biluki uk  .
 Biluki uk dat   fan di Wikimedia Foundation.
 Wiis sa gur en biluki di   fan di Wikimedia Foundation en di üđer  .
 Ali Wikipedia-Skriiwers fo Biskiir, dat di alis, wat ja tö des Natsir tödö, eeđer jaar beest Weeten en Giweeten āpskriif skel. Wat iin ön di Wikipedia staant, dat heer ein Gimiinskep ütaarbert, en dit kontroliaret uk nemen üs jam salev. Ark Bidrach ken fan arkenjen foranert uur. Senerk Bidrachen, wat sa ütse, üs wan di töögen Rochten (Sa üs Urheber-, Forwertings-, Menskenrochten) gung, ken söner Biskiir iinfach wechmaakit uur. Arkjen staant fuar dat, wat hi skrewen her, gans aliining iin. Di Wikipedia bihalt dat Rocht, olterslemi Skriiwers üttösmit.
 Di Struktuur fan di Wikipedia es iipen. Diaraur ken't pasiari, dat en Bidrach olter ual of somhur forkiirt skrewen es, of dat em ek muar keen ken, hurme di Bidrach töhophangt. Mesken es en Bidrach uk olter kuurt. 
Di ensiklopeedisk Bidrachen ön di Wikipedia skel juu help en liir wat diartö. En Reer skel di ek dö. 
Dat Risiko, wan jen alis liift, wat jir staant, ken di Skriiwers ek draii en di Wikipedia uk ek. 
Biluki diartö uk di   en di  .
 Di Skriiwers, wat   of „Sysop“ nēmt sen, hiir ek tö di Wikipedia. Ja sen Skriiwers, wat muar Rochten fingen haa, aurdat ja me di Technik fan di Wikipedia gur om ken. 
Fuar't miist help des Lir hol en gau, wan't Fraagen jeft of wan wat ek rocht paset.  
Ja sen man ek fuar alis töstendig en haftbaar, wat jir pasiaret.
 Di Önberer fan des Natsir jeft aural Biskiir, dat niin Skelter, Teksti, Musik of üđers nemen uur skel, hur en trērst Mensk Urheberrochten ön heer. 
Bi di Wikipedia uur rocht fuul hoogstjüürt en skrewen. Diaraur ken uk nemen disarfuar üppasi, dat diar ek dach en Skelt of üers diartwesken es, wat diar ek wiis skul. 
Aurdes skel jen, hokens Aarber jir söner di Rochten diarfuar weegit uur, hol Biskiir sii, da uur des Datei metjens ütnemen. 
Di ofitsieli Wai es, des Biskiir hentö jen fan di   (eeđer US-Gisetsi) fan Wikimedia tö stjüüri. 
Fuar't miist es't man efen sa gur of mener swaar, aktiivi Skriiwers en Natpost tö stjüür: Di Adres es  . 
Iin ön des Natpost skel di Adres fan di Sir staan, hur di Dati tö finj es, wat diar ek henjert.


URL: https://frr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Impressum

Content: 
 „Wikipedia, Di frii Ensiklopedii“ es ön't Nat öner   tö finj, üp Dütsk öner  .
 Des Websir uur fan di   önberen, wat bi dat   öner di Numer N03000005323 iinskrewen es. Di Wikimedia Foundation es en Stifting eeđer't Rocht fan di US-Bundsstaat  . Wan wat tö bisnaki es, da sket Dü des me  . biraili, wat uk di   ön di Sen fan di   es.
 Wan Dü wat fraagi of en Interview maaki wet, da kenst Dü uk hol jen fan di Nuurđfriisk Meaarberers fraagi, biluki diartö   en  .
 Wikipedia es en frii  . Muar au des  Projekt kenst Dü üp di Sir   sa üs iin ön di   lees. Di Biteekning „frii“ meent, dat Wikipedia-Bidrachen   sen. Em mut diareeđer alis priwaat oder kommertsiel binüti, wat em jir fent. Hur'ling dat ginau funktsjoniaret, staant langsen diarbi:   of  .  
Wan di Lir wat hoogstjüüri, ken di diarfuar forskelig Aarten binüti, en dö dit frii. Em skel langsen gur döörlees, hur'ling di Datei friidönen es. Biluki uk  .
 Biluki uk dat   fan di Wikimedia Foundation.
 Wiis sa gur en biluki di   fan di Wikimedia Foundation en di üđer  .
 Ali Wikipedia-Skriiwers fo Biskiir, dat di alis, wat ja tö des Natsir tödö, eeđer jaar beest Weeten en Giweeten āpskriif skel. Wat iin ön di Wikipedia staant, dat heer ein Gimiinskep ütaarbert, en dit kontroliaret uk nemen üs jam salev. Ark Bidrach ken fan arkenjen foranert uur. Senerk Bidrachen, wat sa ütse, üs wan di töögen Rochten (Sa üs Urheber-, Forwertings-, Menskenrochten) gung, ken söner Biskiir iinfach wechmaakit uur. Arkjen staant fuar dat, wat hi skrewen her, gans aliining iin. Di Wikipedia bihalt dat Rocht, olterslemi Skriiwers üttösmit.
 Di Struktuur fan di Wikipedia es iipen. Diaraur ken't pasiari, dat en Bidrach olter ual of somhur forkiirt skrewen es, of dat em ek muar keen ken, hurme di Bidrach töhophangt. Mesken es en Bidrach uk olter kuurt. 
Di ensiklopeedisk Bidrachen ön di Wikipedia skel juu help en liir wat diartö. En Reer skel di ek dö. 
Dat Risiko, wan jen alis liift, wat jir staant, ken di Skriiwers ek draii en di Wikipedia uk ek. 
Biluki diartö uk di   en di  .
 Di Skriiwers, wat   of „Sysop“ nēmt sen, hiir ek tö di Wikipedia. Ja sen Skriiwers, wat muar Rochten fingen haa, aurdat ja me di Technik fan di Wikipedia gur om ken. 
Fuar't miist help des Lir hol en gau, wan't Fraagen jeft of wan wat ek rocht paset.  
Ja sen man ek fuar alis töstendig en haftbaar, wat jir pasiaret.
 Di Önberer fan des Natsir jeft aural Biskiir, dat niin Skelter, Teksti, Musik of üđers nemen uur skel, hur en trērst Mensk Urheberrochten ön heer. 
Bi di Wikipedia uur rocht fuul hoogstjüürt en skrewen. Diaraur ken uk nemen disarfuar üppasi, dat diar ek dach en Skelt of üers diartwesken es, wat diar ek wiis skul. 
Aurdes skel jen, hokens Aarber jir söner di Rochten diarfuar weegit uur, hol Biskiir sii, da uur des Datei metjens ütnemen. 
Di ofitsieli Wai es, des Biskiir hentö jen fan di   (eeđer US-Gisetsi) fan Wikimedia tö stjüüri. 
Fuar't miist es't man efen sa gur of mener swaar, aktiivi Skriiwers en Natpost tö stjüür: Di Adres es  . 
Iin ön des Natpost skel di Adres fan di Sir staan, hur di Dati tö finj es, wat diar ek henjert.


URL: https://sk.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:Vyl%C3%BA%C4%8Denie_zodpovednosti

Content:  ~   ~  
  je otvorená internetová  , tzn. zoskupenie dobrovoľníkov, ktorí vytvárajú databázu ľudského poznania. Jej princípy dovoľujú komukoľvek s pripojením k internetu a webovým prehliadačom meniť jej obsah. Preto je treba upozorniť, že nič, čo tu nájdete, nemuselo byť skontrolované a nemusí obsahovať úplné, presné ani spoľahlivé informácie.
 To neznamená, že vo Wikipédii nemôžete nájsť hodnotné a podrobné informácie, ale je treba si uvedomiť, že Wikipédia sa nemôže žiadnym spôsobom zaručiť za presnosť informácií, ktoré uvádza. Tieto informácie mohol zmeniť či poškodiť niekto, koho názory sa nezhodujú s aktuálnym stavom znalostí v danom obore. Snažíme sa vytvoriť metódy, ako vybrať a ponúknuť najspoľahlivejšie verzie článkov. Momentálne ponúkame túto možnosť pomocou zoznamu  . Avšak aj články tu uvedené mohli byť nevhodne zmenené tesne pred tým, ako si ich pozriete.
 Pochopte prosím, že informácie tu ponúkané sú poskytované zdarma a neexistuje žiadna zmluva medzi vami a majiteľmi či používateľmi týchto stránok, vlastníkmi serverov, na ktorých Wikipédia beží, jednotlivými prispievateľmi, správcami, či akoukoľvek inou osobou spojenou s Wikipédiou.
 Uvedomte si prosím, že informácie tu uvedené môžu porušovať zákony krajiny, z ktorej si ich pozeráte. Wikipédia je proti porušovaniu zákonov, ale obsah Wikipédie je uložený na serveroch v štáte   v  , kde je právo na zverejňovanie informácií chránené Prvým dodatkom   a princípmi  . Zákony Vašej krajiny nemusia poskytovať tak širokú ochranu slobody slova, takže Wikipédia nemôže zodpovedať za prípadné porušenie príslušných zákonov.
 Ďakujeme za Váš čas strávený prečítaním tejto stránky a prajeme Vám príjemné používanie Wikipédie.


URL: https://sl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedija:Splo%C5%A1no_zanikanje_odgovornosti

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W 
  je spletna odprtovsebinska (   ) enciklopedija. To pomeni, da je prostovoljna povezava posameznikov in skupin, ki razvijajo skupen vir človeškega znanja. Njena struktura omogoča, da lahko vsak, ki ima spletno povezavo in spletni brskalnik, spreminja njeno vsebino. Zato bodite pozorni, da ni nobenega jamstva o tem, da je katerakoli od vsebin enciklopedije strokovno pregledana in potrjena s strani strokovnjakov z ustreznim znanjem na posameznem področju, kar bi omogočalo celovito, ažurno in zanesljivo informacijo o kateremkoli zapisu v enciklopediji  .
 To ne pomeni, da v enciklopediji   ne boste našli ažurnih in uporabnih informacij, vendar pa vas opozarjamo, da   na noben način   za pravilnost vsebine v enciklopediji. Mogoče je, da je bil katerikoli del vsebine pred kratkim spremenjen oziroma dopolnjen, podvržen vandalizmu ali ga je spremenil nekdo, čigar mnenje ne ustreza trenutnemu stanju strokovnega znanja na področju, glede katerega potrebujete informacijo. Trudimo se izboljšati načine izbire in odobritve zanesljivejših različic prispevkov, vendar kljub temu nikakor ne moremo jamčiti za njihovo pravilnost. Najboljši trenutni približek temu cilju so  . Vendar je možno, da so bili tudi ti članki neusmiljeno spremenjeni, tik preden ste jih začeli brati.
 Posebej vas opozarjamo, da je ponujena vsebina na razpolago brezplačno in brez kakršnihkoli omejitev. Z njeno uporabo ne nastane nikakršen pravni posel med vami in lastniki oziroma uporabniki tega spletišča, lastniki strežnikov, na katerih se spletišče nahaja, posameznimi osebami, ki so prispevale vsebino, projektnimi vodji ali administratorji, sistemskimi upravitelji ali drugimi osebami, ki so na kakršenkoli način povezane s tem ali s sestrskimi projekti. Zato od njih ne morete ničesar neposredno ali posredno zahtevati. Pravico imate reproducirati karkoli na tem spletišču, vendar pa takšno dejanje ne ustvari in tudi ne podrazumeva nobene pogodbene ali odškodninske obveznosti na strani enciklopedije   ali njenih predstavnikov, članov, organizatorjev ali drugih uporabnikov.
 Vse registrirane znamke, trgovske znamke, oblikovalske pravice, avtorske pravice ipd., ki so omenjene, uporabljene ali navedene v člankih Wikipedije, so v lasti njihovih spoštovanih lastnikov. Njihova uporaba tukaj ne pomeni, da jih lahko sami uporabljate za kakršenkoli drugačen razlog, kot iz tega ali podobnega informativnega razloga, kakor so uporabljene v originalnih Wikipedijinih člankih pod GFDL licenčno shemo. Razen, če ni drugače navedeno, nihče od nosilcev takih pravic ne podpira ali sodeluje z Wikipedijo ali Wikimedijinimi stranmi. Zato Wikipedija ne more zagotavljati pravic uporabe nobenega registriranega materiala.  
 Prosimo, zapomnite si, da je lahko vsebina, ki jo vidite tukaj, v nasprotju z zakoni območja, od koder dostopate do nje.   ne podpira kršenja zakonov. Ker so te informacije shranjene na strežniku na   v  , je vzdrževana v skladu z zaščito, zajamčeno vsem v     in načelih    . Zakoni Vaše države mogoče ne priznavajo tako široke zaščite svobodnega govora kot zakoni   ali načela Združenih narodov. Zato   ne more biti odgovorna za kršenje teh zakonov, če navedete povezave nanjo ali uporabite informacije, shranjene na teh straneh na kakršenkoli način.
 
 , ker je prostovoljna organizacija posameznikov, namenjena ustvarjanju različnih prostih virov spletnih informacij.  . Glede vaše uporabe in spreminjanja informacij med   ne obstaja nobena pogodba ali sporazum razen točk, določenih v  . Prav tako nihče na   ni kazensko odgovoren za spremembe ali odstranitev informacij, ki ste jih vi shranili na   ali katerokoli sorodno stran.
 Hvala za čas, ki ste si ga vzeli, da ste prebrali pojasnila na tej strani. Veliko užitkov pri uporabi enciklopedije  . 


URL: https://nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Algemeen_voorbehoud

Content: 

URL: https://mn.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:%D0%95%D1%80%D3%A9%D0%BD%D1%85%D0%B8%D0%B9_%D1%82%D0%B0%D1%82%D0%B3%D0%B0%D0%BB%D0%B7%D0%B0%D0%BB

Content:  нь чөлөөт   юм. „Чөлөөт“ гэдэг нь википедиа дахь өгүүллэгийн агуулга нь лизенцгүй буюу зөвшөөрөлтэйгөөр нийтэд нийтийн сүлжээнд ашиглаж болох агуулга гэсэн утгатай юм.
 Википедиа нь хүний мэдлэгийн санг нэгтгэж, арвижуулахын төлөө, сайн дурын үндсэн дээр нэгдэж хамтран бичдэг, интернэт дэх нэвтэрхий толь юм. Интернэт холболттой хүн бүр энэ төслийн агуулгыг өөрчилж болно. Иймээс энд буй мэдээллийг мэргэжилтнүүд хянаж, үнэн зөв гэдгийг батлаагүй бөгөөд зарим мэдээлэл нь найдвартай бус байж болно.
 Хэдийгээр Википедиа дахь дийлэнхи мэдээлэл үнэ цэнтэй, үнэн зөв байдаг ч гэлээ, Википедиа нь энд буй мэдээлэл үнэн зөв гэсэн баталгааг гаргахгүй. 
 Аливаа хувь нэмэр оруулагчид, спонсорууд, администраторууд, болон бусад Википедиатай холбоотой хүмүүс, Википедиад худал эсвэл гүтгэсэн мэдээлэл гарсан, эсвэл энд байгаа мэдээлэл ба эндээс линк хийгдсэн мэдээллийг ашигласантай холбоотой гарсан ямарваа зүйлд хариуцлага хүлээхгүй.
 Тодорхой мэргэжлийн зөвлөгөө (жишээ нь эмнэлгийн, хуулийн, санхүүгийн, эрсдлийн удирдлага г.м.) авахыг хүсвэл, тухайн чиглэлийн  мэргэжилтэнд хандана уу.


URL: https://km.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E1%9E%9C%E1%9E%B7%E1%9E%82%E1%9E%B8%E1%9E%97%E1%9E%B8%E1%9E%8C%E1%9E%B6:%E1%9E%80%E1%9E%B6%E1%9E%9A%E1%9E%94%E1%9E%8A%E1%9E%B7%E1%9E%9F%E1%9F%81%E1%9E%92_%E1%9E%91%E1%9E%BC%E1%9E%91%E1%9F%85

Content: វិគីភីឌាជាប្រភេទសព្វវចនាធិប្បាយនៅលើបណ្តាញ​អ៊ីនធឺណិតដែលមានការចូលរួមដោយសហគមន៍អ្នកស្ម័គ្រចិត្តជាច្រើនរូប ដើម្បីចូលរួមចំនែកពង្រីក និងចែករំលែកចំនេះដឹងគ្នាទៅវិញតៅមកនៅតាមបណ្តាញអ៊ិនអឺណិត ដែលប្រភពក្នុងការអភិវឌ្ឍន៍ដ៏ចំបងសំរាប់អ្នកប្រើប្រាស់អ៊ីនធឺណិតទូទៅ។ រចនាសំព័ន្ធរបស់គំរោងនេះគឺអនុញ្ញាតអោយ​មនុស្សគ្រប់រូប​ដែលមានបណ្ដាញ​អ៊ីនធឺណិត​ធ្វើការកែប្រែខ្លឹមសារអត្ថបទនានា។ សូមកត់សំគាល់ថា អ្វីៗដែលសរសេរនៅទីនេះ​មិនប្រាកដថា​បានឆ្លងកាត់ការត្រួតពិនិត្យ​ពីអ្នកមានជំនាញត្រឹមត្រូវ ក្នុងការផ្ដល់អោយអ្នក​នូវព័ត៌មានពេញលេញ ត្រឹមត្រូវ និងអាចទុកចិត្តបាន១០០%ទេ។
 នេះមិនមែនមានន័យថា​អ្នកមិនអាចរកបានព័ត៌មាន​មានតំលៃនិងត្រឹមត្រូវសោះនោះទេ។ ភាគច្រើនអ្នកអាចរកបានព័ត៌មាន​មានតំលៃ ប៉ុន្តែ  ។ ខ្លឹមសារអត្ថបទ​ខ្លះត្រូវបានកែប្រែនាពេលថ្មីៗ បំផ្លិចបំផ្លាញ ឬប្ដូរខ្លឹមសារទាំងស្រុង​ដោយនរណាម្នាក់​ដែលមានយោបល់​ខុសពីអ្វីដែលគេសរសេរមុននោះ។
 គេហទំព័រវិគីភីឌានេះមានការធានានិងទំនួលអ្វីទាំងអស់។ អ្នកដែលជាប់ពាក់ពាន់នឹងវិបសាយនេះ(រួមទាំងអ្នកចូលរួមចំនែកទាំងឡាយ) មិនព្រមទទួលខុសត្រូវ និងសូមធ្វើការបដិសេធចំពោះរាល់ការទាមទារអោយទទួលខុសត្រូវរបស់លោកអ្នក។ សូមអ្នកមានទំនួលខុសត្រូវរាល់ការប្រើប្រាស់វិបសាយនេះ ទាំងការមើល ការរួមចំនែក ការយកខ្លឹមសារក្នុងវិបសាយនេះទៅប្រើប្រាស់។
 ​


URL: https://my.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E1%80%9D%E1%80%AE%E1%80%80%E1%80%AE%E1%80%95%E1%80%AE%E1%80%B8%E1%80%92%E1%80%AE%E1%80%B8%E1%80%9A%E1%80%AC%E1%80%B8:%E1%80%A1%E1%80%91%E1%80%BD%E1%80%B1%E1%80%91%E1%80%BD%E1%80%B1_%E1%80%9E%E1%80%90%E1%80%AD%E1%80%95%E1%80%BC%E1%80%AF%E1%80%96%E1%80%BD%E1%80%9A%E1%80%BA

Content: 
 
ဝီကီပီးဒီးယားသည် လူအများက စုပေါင်းရေးသားထား၍ အားလုံးကို ဝေမျှထားသော အွန်လိုင်း စွယ်စုံကျမ်း တစ်ခုသာလျှင် ဖြစ်ပါသည်။ ဆိုလိုရင်းမှာ လူတစ်ဦးတစ်ယောက်ချင်း သို့မဟုတ် လူအုပ်စုများက မိမိတို့၏ သဘောဆန္ဒဖြင့်လူသားတို့၏ အသိဉာဏ် ဗဟုသုတ တိုးတက်ဖွံ့ဖြိုးရေး အတွက် ရည်ရွယ်၍ လုပ်ဆောင်နေခြင်းသာ ဖြစ်ပါသည်။ ပရော့ဂျက်၏ ပုံသဏ္ဌာန်အရ အင်တာနက် ဆက်သွယ်မှု ရှိသူ မည်သူမဆို အတွင်းရှိ စာသားများကို ပြောင်းလဲပိုင်ခွင့်ရှိပါသည်။ ထို့ကြောင့် ဤနေရာတွင် တွေ့ရှိသော အကြောင်းအရာများမှာ ကျွမ်းကျင်သူများမှ ပြန်လည် စိစစ်သုံးသပ်ထားခြင်း မရှိသဖြင့် တိကျပြည့်စုံ၍ အားကိုးအားထားပြုလောက်သော သတင်း အချက်အလက်များ ဖြစ်ချင်မှ ဖြစ်ပါလိမ့်မည်ဆိုသည့်အကြောင်း အကြံပေးချင်ပါသည်။
 ထိုအတွက်ကြောင့် သင့်အနေနှင့် တန်ဖိုးရှိပြီး တိကျသော သတင်းအချက်အလက်များကို ဝီကီပီးဒီးယားတွင် ရှာဖွေတွေ့ရှိနိုင်လိမ့်မည် မဟုတ်ဟုလည်း မဆိုလိုပါ။ များသောအားဖြင့် သင့်အနေနှင့် ထိုသို့သော သတင်းအချက်အလက်များကို တွေ့နိုင်ပါသည်။ သို့သော်လည်း ဝီကီပီးဒီးယားမှ ဤနေရာတွင် တွေ့ရှိသော သတင်းအချက်အလက်များသည် ခိုင်လုံတိကျသည်ဟု အာမခံချက် မပေးနိုင်ပါ။ ဆောင်းပါးတွင် ပါဝင်သော အကြောင်းအရာများကို လတ်တလောတွင် သက်ဆိုင်ရာနယ်ပယ်နှင့် ပတ်သက်သော ဗဟုသုတ မရှိသူ တစ်ဦးမှ ပြောင်းလဲခြင်း၊ ဖျက်ဆီးခြင်း သို့မဟုတ် ပြင်ဆင်ခြင်းများ ပြုလုပ်ထားနိုင်ပါသည်။ အခြားသော စွယ်စုံကျမ်းများနှင့် ကျမ်းကိုး အများစုတွင်လည်း အလားတူ မသက်ဆိုင်ကြောင်း ရှင်းလင်းချက်များ ရှိတတ်သည်ကို သတိပြုစေလိုပါသည်။
 ယုံကြည်စိတ်ချရသောဆောင်းပါများ ရွေးချယ်တင်ပြနိုင်ရန် နည်းလမ်းများကို ကျွန်တော်တို့ ရှာဖွေလုပ်ဆောင်နေပါသည်။ ကျွန်တော်တို့၏ တက်ကြွသော အယ်ဒီတာအဖွဲ့သည်  အချက်အလက်အသစ်များနှင့် ပြောင်းလဲမှုများကို   နှင့်    တို့ကဲ့သို့သော ကိရိယာများကို အသုံးပြုပြီး စောင့်ကြည့်ထိန်းသိမ်းလျက်ရှိပါသည်။ သို့သော်လည်း ဝီကီပီးဒီးယားကို တပြေးညီ အကဲဖြတ်ခြင်းရှိမနေသည့်အတွက် စာဖတ်သူများသည် အမှားများ ပြင်ဆင်ခြင်းနှင့် အကဲဖြတ်ခြင်းတို့တွင် ပါဝင်ပတ်သက်လေ့ရှိသော်လည်း သူတို့တွင် ထိုသို့ပြုလုပ်ရမည်ဟူသော တာဝန်ဝတ္တရား ရှိမနေပါ။ ထို့အတွက်ကြောင့် ဤနေရာတွင် ဖတ်ရှုရနိုင်သော အချက်အလက်များသည် မည်သည့်နေရာတွင်မဆို သို့မဟုတ် မည်သည့်ရည်ရွယ်ချက်ဖြင့်မဆို အသုံးပြုရန်အတွက် ဆီလျော်နေမည်ဟု အာမခံချက် ပေးမထားပါ။ ဆောင်းပါးများကို အကဲဖြတ်ခဲ့ပြီး ဖြစ်သော်လည်း နောက်ပိုင်းတွင် သင်မဖတ်ရမီအချိန်အတွင်း မဆီမလျော်တည်းဖြတ်ခြင်းခံရနေနိုင်ပါသည်။
 
 ဤနေရာတွင် ဖော်ပြထားသော အချက်အလက်များကို အခမဲ့ထောက်ပံ့ထားခြင်းဖြစ်ပြီး သင်နှင့် ပိုင်ရှင်များ သို့မဟုတ် ဤဆိုဒ်ကို အသုံးပြုသူများ၊ လွှင့်တင်ထားသော ဆာဗာများ၏ ပိုင်ရှင်များ၊ ဝီကီပီးဒီးယား ပံ့ပိုးသူတစ်ဦးချင်း၊ ပရောဂျက်စီမံခန့်ခွဲသူများ၊ အက်ဒမင်များ သို့မဟုတ် ဤပရောဂျက် သို့မဟုတ် ညီအစ်မပရောဂျက်များတွင်    အကြားတွင် သဘောတူညီချက်၊ သဘောတူစာချုပ် တစ်မျိုးမျိုး ရှိမနေသည်ကို သတိပြုပါ။ ဤဆိုဒ်ပေါ်ရှိ မည်သည့်အကြောင်းအရာကိုမဆို ကူးယူရန် သင့်အား ကန့်သတ်လိုင်စင်တစ်ခုဖြင့် ပေးအပ်ထားပြီး ဝီကီပီးဒီးယား၏ တစ်စိတ်တစ်ပိုင်း သို့မဟုတ် ၎င်း၏အေးဂျင့်များ၊ အဖွဲ့ဝင်များ၊ စီစဉ်သူများ သို့မဟုတ် အခြားအသုံးပြုသူများ၏ အစိတ်အပိုင်းတစ်ခုတွင် စာချုပ်စာတမ်းဆိုင်ရာ သို့မဟုတ် အပိုတာဝန်ယူမှုကို ဖန်တီးခြင်း သို့မဟုတ် သတ်မှတ်ထားခြင်း မရှိပါ။
  (CC-BY-SA) နှင့်   (GFDL) တို့ထက် ကျော်လွန်၍ ဤသတင်းအချက်အလက်များအား အသုံးပြုခြင်းနှင့် ပြင်ဆင်ခြင်းအပေါ်  ပါ။ ဝီကီပီးဒီးယား သို့မဟုတ် ၎င်း၏ဆက်စပ်ပရောဂျက်များပေါ်တွင် သင်တင်နိုင်သည့် မည်သည့်အချက်အလက်ကိုမဆို ပြောင်းလဲခြင်း၊ တည်းဖြတ်ခြင်း၊ ပြင်ဆင်ခြင်း သို့မဟုတ် ဖယ်ရှားခြင်းများအတွက် ဝီကီပီးဒီးယားရှိ မည်သူတစ်ဦးတစ်ယောက်ထံတွင်မျှ တာဝန်မရှိပါ။
 ဝီကီပီဒီးယား စွယ်စုံကျမ်းတွင် အသုံးပြု သို့မဟုတ် ရည်ညွှန်း ဖော်ပြထားသော ကုန်အမှတ်တံဆိပ်၊ ဝန်ဆောင်မှု အမှတ်အသား၊ အစုအပေါင်း အမှတ်အသား၊ ဒီဇိုင်း မူပိုင်ခွင့် သို့မဟုတ် အလာတူ အခွင့်အရေးများသည် သက်ဆိုင်ရာ ပိုင်ရှင်များ၏ ပိုင်ဆိုင်မှုသာ ဖြစ်သည်။ 
 ဝီကီပီဒီးယား စွယ်စုံကျမ်းပါ ဆောင်းပါးများတွင် ဖော်ပြထားသော၊ အသုံးပြုထားသော သို့မဟုတ် ကိုးကားဖော်ပြထားသော အမှတ်တံဆိပ်များ၊ ဝန်ဆောင်မှုအမှတ်အသားများ၊ စုပေါင်းအမှတ်အသားများ၊ ဒီဇိုင်းဆိုင်ရာ မူပိုင်အခွင့်အရေးများ သို့မဟုတ် အလားတူအခွင့်အရေးများကို ဝီကီပီဒီးယား စွယ်စုံကျမ်း၏ ဆောင်းပါးများတွင် ဖော်ပြထားခြင်းများသည် သက်ဆိုင်ရာပိုင်ရှင်များ၏ ပိုင်ဆိုင်မှုဖြစ်သည်။ ဤနေရာတွင် ၎င်းတို့၏အသုံးပြုမှုသည် CC-BY-SA နှင့် GFDL လိုင်စင်အစီအစဉ်များအောက်ရှိ ဤဝီကီပီးဒီးယားဆောင်းပါးများ၏ မူရင်းစာရေးဆရာများမှ တွေးခေါ်ထားသည့်အတိုင်း တူညီသော သို့မဟုတ် အလားတူသတင်းအချက်အလက်အသုံးပြုမှုမှလွဲ၍ အခြားမည်သည့်ရည်ရွယ်ချက်အတွက်မဆို ၎င်းတို့ကို အသုံးပြုနိုင်ကြောင်း မဆိုလိုပါ။ အခြားနည်းဖြင့် မဖော်ပြထားပါက၊ ဝီကီပီဒီးယားနှင့် ဝီကီမီဒီယာဆိုဒ်များသည် ယင်းအခွင့်အရေးကို ကိုင်ဆောင်ထားသူများနှင့် သက်ဆိုင်ခြင်းမရှိသကဲ့သို့၊ ဝီကီပီဒီးယားနှင့် အခြားသော ကာကွယ်ထားသည့်ပစ္စည်းများကို အသုံးပြုရန် မည်သည့်အခွင့်အရေးကိုမှ မပေးနိုင်ပါ။ ထိုကဲ့သို့သော သို့မဟုတ် အလားတူသော ပေါင်းစပ်ပစ္စည်းပိုင်ဆိုင်မှုကို သင့်အနေဖြင့် အသုံးပြုခြင်း သင့်တာဝန်သာ ဖြစ်သည်။
 အသက်ရှိဆဲ သို့မဟုတ် မကြာသေးမီက ကွယ်လွန်ခဲ့သည့် မှတ်မိသိရှိနိုင်ဖွယ်ရှိသော လူပုဂ္ဂိုလ်အကြောင်း ဖော်ပြချက် အကြောင်းအရာများ ဝီကီပီဒီးယားတွင် ပါဝင်သည်။ အသက်ရှိဆဲ သို့မဟုတ် ကွယ်လွန်ခဲ့ပြီးသော ပုဂ္ဂိုလ်များ၏ ပုံများကို အသုံးပြုရာတွင် တရားစီရင်မှု တချို့နှင့် ငြိစွန်းခြင်း၊ တသီးပုဂ္ဂလ အခွင့်အရေးများအရ ဥပဒေဖြင့် တင်းကြပ်ထားခြင်း၊ မူပိုင်ခွင့်မှ လွတ်မြောက်နေခြင်းများ ဖြစ်နိုင်ပါသည်။ အဆိုပါ အမျိုးအစား အကြောင်းအရာများကို အသုံးမပြုမီ သင်အသုံးပြုရန် ရည်စူးထားသည့် အနေအထားတွင် ဥပဒေကြောင်းအရ အသုံးပြုခွင့် ရှိကြောင်း သေချာအောင် ကျေးဇူးပြု၍ လုပ်ဆောင်ပါ။  
 ဝီကီပီဒီးယားပါ သတင်းအချက်အလက် ဖော်ပြချက်များသည် သင် ဖတ်ရှုသည့်နေရာဒေသ၏ ဥပဒေများ၊ တရားစီရင်ရေးရာများကို ချိုးဖောက်ရာ ရောက်ကောင်း ရောက်နိုင်ပါသည်။ ဝီကီပီဒီးယား ဒေတာအထိုင်ကို  ၊ ဖလော်ရီဒါပြည်နယ်ရှိ ဆာဗာတွင် သိမ်းဆည်းထားပါသည်။ ထို့အပြင် ဒေသတွင်းနှင့် ဖက်ဒရယ် ဥပဒေများဖြင့် ရည်ညွှန်းကိုးကားချက်များကို အကာအကွယ်ယူ ထိန်းသိမ်းထားပါသည်။ သင်နေထိုင်ရာ နိုင်ငံ၏ ဥပဒေ သို့မဟုတ် တရားစီရင်ရေးသည် အလားတူ မိန့်ဆိုချက် သို့မဟုတ် အထောက်အကူပေးချက်များကို အကာအကွယ်ပေးချင်မှ ပေးနိုင်ပါလိမ့်မည်။ ဝီကီပီဒီးယားအနေဖြင့် မည်သည့်ဥပဒေ ချိုးဖောက်မှုကိုမှ အားမပေးပါ။ ဤတွင် ပါဝင်နေသော သတင်းအချက်အလက်များကို ပြန်လည် ဖော်ပြချက် သို့မဟုတ် ပြန်လည် ထုတ်လုပ်ချက် သို့မဟုတ် အသုံးပြုထားချက် သို့မဟုတ် ဒိုမိန်းလိပ်စာ ချိတ်ဆက်ထားမှုတို့ကြောင့် ဖြစ်ပေါ်သော မည်သည့်ဥပဒေ ချိုးဖောက်မှုကိုမှ တာဝန် မခံနိုင်ပါ။
 အထူးအကြံဉာဏ် (ဥပမာ ဆေးပညာဆိုင်ရာ၊ ဥပဒေဆိုင်ရာ၊ ဘဏ္ဍာရေးဆိုင်ရာ သို့မဟုတ် အန္တရာယ်အခြေအနေကို စီမံခန့်ခွဲမှု) လိုအပ်လျှင် အဆိုပါ နယ်ပယ်တွင် ဗဟုသုတ ကြွယ်ဝသူ သို့မဟုတ် လုပ်ပိုင်ခွင့် လိုင်စင်ရသူ ပညာရှင် (professional) ကို ရှာဖွေမေးမြန်းပါ။


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RecentChanges

Content: This is a list of recent changes to Wikipedia.
 This page is not available in other languages.

URL: https://my.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E1%80%9D%E1%80%AE%E1%80%80%E1%80%AE%E1%80%95%E1%80%AE%E1%80%B8%E1%80%92%E1%80%AE%E1%80%B8%E1%80%9A%E1%80%AC%E1%80%B8:%E1%80%A1%E1%80%91%E1%80%BD%E1%80%B1%E1%80%91%E1%80%BD%E1%80%B1_%E1%80%9E%E1%80%90%E1%80%AD%E1%80%95%E1%80%BC%E1%80%AF%E1%80%96%E1%80%BD%E1%80%9A%E1%80%BA

Content: 
 
ဝီကီပီးဒီးယားသည် လူအများက စုပေါင်းရေးသားထား၍ အားလုံးကို ဝေမျှထားသော အွန်လိုင်း စွယ်စုံကျမ်း တစ်ခုသာလျှင် ဖြစ်ပါသည်။ ဆိုလိုရင်းမှာ လူတစ်ဦးတစ်ယောက်ချင်း သို့မဟုတ် လူအုပ်စုများက မိမိတို့၏ သဘောဆန္ဒဖြင့်လူသားတို့၏ အသိဉာဏ် ဗဟုသုတ တိုးတက်ဖွံ့ဖြိုးရေး အတွက် ရည်ရွယ်၍ လုပ်ဆောင်နေခြင်းသာ ဖြစ်ပါသည်။ ပရော့ဂျက်၏ ပုံသဏ္ဌာန်အရ အင်တာနက် ဆက်သွယ်မှု ရှိသူ မည်သူမဆို အတွင်းရှိ စာသားများကို ပြောင်းလဲပိုင်ခွင့်ရှိပါသည်။ ထို့ကြောင့် ဤနေရာတွင် တွေ့ရှိသော အကြောင်းအရာများမှာ ကျွမ်းကျင်သူများမှ ပြန်လည် စိစစ်သုံးသပ်ထားခြင်း မရှိသဖြင့် တိကျပြည့်စုံ၍ အားကိုးအားထားပြုလောက်သော သတင်း အချက်အလက်များ ဖြစ်ချင်မှ ဖြစ်ပါလိမ့်မည်ဆိုသည့်အကြောင်း အကြံပေးချင်ပါသည်။
 ထိုအတွက်ကြောင့် သင့်အနေနှင့် တန်ဖိုးရှိပြီး တိကျသော သတင်းအချက်အလက်များကို ဝီကီပီးဒီးယားတွင် ရှာဖွေတွေ့ရှိနိုင်လိမ့်မည် မဟုတ်ဟုလည်း မဆိုလိုပါ။ များသောအားဖြင့် သင့်အနေနှင့် ထိုသို့သော သတင်းအချက်အလက်များကို တွေ့နိုင်ပါသည်။ သို့သော်လည်း ဝီကီပီးဒီးယားမှ ဤနေရာတွင် တွေ့ရှိသော သတင်းအချက်အလက်များသည် ခိုင်လုံတိကျသည်ဟု အာမခံချက် မပေးနိုင်ပါ။ ဆောင်းပါးတွင် ပါဝင်သော အကြောင်းအရာများကို လတ်တလောတွင် သက်ဆိုင်ရာနယ်ပယ်နှင့် ပတ်သက်သော ဗဟုသုတ မရှိသူ တစ်ဦးမှ ပြောင်းလဲခြင်း၊ ဖျက်ဆီးခြင်း သို့မဟုတ် ပြင်ဆင်ခြင်းများ ပြုလုပ်ထားနိုင်ပါသည်။ အခြားသော စွယ်စုံကျမ်းများနှင့် ကျမ်းကိုး အများစုတွင်လည်း အလားတူ မသက်ဆိုင်ကြောင်း ရှင်းလင်းချက်များ ရှိတတ်သည်ကို သတိပြုစေလိုပါသည်။
 ယုံကြည်စိတ်ချရသောဆောင်းပါများ ရွေးချယ်တင်ပြနိုင်ရန် နည်းလမ်းများကို ကျွန်တော်တို့ ရှာဖွေလုပ်ဆောင်နေပါသည်။ ကျွန်တော်တို့၏ တက်ကြွသော အယ်ဒီတာအဖွဲ့သည်  အချက်အလက်အသစ်များနှင့် ပြောင်းလဲမှုများကို   နှင့်    တို့ကဲ့သို့သော ကိရိယာများကို အသုံးပြုပြီး စောင့်ကြည့်ထိန်းသိမ်းလျက်ရှိပါသည်။ သို့သော်လည်း ဝီကီပီးဒီးယားကို တပြေးညီ အကဲဖြတ်ခြင်းရှိမနေသည့်အတွက် စာဖတ်သူများသည် အမှားများ ပြင်ဆင်ခြင်းနှင့် အကဲဖြတ်ခြင်းတို့တွင် ပါဝင်ပတ်သက်လေ့ရှိသော်လည်း သူတို့တွင် ထိုသို့ပြုလုပ်ရမည်ဟူသော တာဝန်ဝတ္တရား ရှိမနေပါ။ ထို့အတွက်ကြောင့် ဤနေရာတွင် ဖတ်ရှုရနိုင်သော အချက်အလက်များသည် မည်သည့်နေရာတွင်မဆို သို့မဟုတ် မည်သည့်ရည်ရွယ်ချက်ဖြင့်မဆို အသုံးပြုရန်အတွက် ဆီလျော်နေမည်ဟု အာမခံချက် ပေးမထားပါ။ ဆောင်းပါးများကို အကဲဖြတ်ခဲ့ပြီး ဖြစ်သော်လည်း နောက်ပိုင်းတွင် သင်မဖတ်ရမီအချိန်အတွင်း မဆီမလျော်တည်းဖြတ်ခြင်းခံရနေနိုင်ပါသည်။
 
 ဤနေရာတွင် ဖော်ပြထားသော အချက်အလက်များကို အခမဲ့ထောက်ပံ့ထားခြင်းဖြစ်ပြီး သင်နှင့် ပိုင်ရှင်များ သို့မဟုတ် ဤဆိုဒ်ကို အသုံးပြုသူများ၊ လွှင့်တင်ထားသော ဆာဗာများ၏ ပိုင်ရှင်များ၊ ဝီကီပီးဒီးယား ပံ့ပိုးသူတစ်ဦးချင်း၊ ပရောဂျက်စီမံခန့်ခွဲသူများ၊ အက်ဒမင်များ သို့မဟုတ် ဤပရောဂျက် သို့မဟုတ် ညီအစ်မပရောဂျက်များတွင်    အကြားတွင် သဘောတူညီချက်၊ သဘောတူစာချုပ် တစ်မျိုးမျိုး ရှိမနေသည်ကို သတိပြုပါ။ ဤဆိုဒ်ပေါ်ရှိ မည်သည့်အကြောင်းအရာကိုမဆို ကူးယူရန် သင့်အား ကန့်သတ်လိုင်စင်တစ်ခုဖြင့် ပေးအပ်ထားပြီး ဝီကီပီးဒီးယား၏ တစ်စိတ်တစ်ပိုင်း သို့မဟုတ် ၎င်း၏အေးဂျင့်များ၊ အဖွဲ့ဝင်များ၊ စီစဉ်သူများ သို့မဟုတ် အခြားအသုံးပြုသူများ၏ အစိတ်အပိုင်းတစ်ခုတွင် စာချုပ်စာတမ်းဆိုင်ရာ သို့မဟုတ် အပိုတာဝန်ယူမှုကို ဖန်တီးခြင်း သို့မဟုတ် သတ်မှတ်ထားခြင်း မရှိပါ။
  (CC-BY-SA) နှင့်   (GFDL) တို့ထက် ကျော်လွန်၍ ဤသတင်းအချက်အလက်များအား အသုံးပြုခြင်းနှင့် ပြင်ဆင်ခြင်းအပေါ်  ပါ။ ဝီကီပီးဒီးယား သို့မဟုတ် ၎င်း၏ဆက်စပ်ပရောဂျက်များပေါ်တွင် သင်တင်နိုင်သည့် မည်သည့်အချက်အလက်ကိုမဆို ပြောင်းလဲခြင်း၊ တည်းဖြတ်ခြင်း၊ ပြင်ဆင်ခြင်း သို့မဟုတ် ဖယ်ရှားခြင်းများအတွက် ဝီကီပီးဒီးယားရှိ မည်သူတစ်ဦးတစ်ယောက်ထံတွင်မျှ တာဝန်မရှိပါ။
 ဝီကီပီဒီးယား စွယ်စုံကျမ်းတွင် အသုံးပြု သို့မဟုတ် ရည်ညွှန်း ဖော်ပြထားသော ကုန်အမှတ်တံဆိပ်၊ ဝန်ဆောင်မှု အမှတ်အသား၊ အစုအပေါင်း အမှတ်အသား၊ ဒီဇိုင်း မူပိုင်ခွင့် သို့မဟုတ် အလာတူ အခွင့်အရေးများသည် သက်ဆိုင်ရာ ပိုင်ရှင်များ၏ ပိုင်ဆိုင်မှုသာ ဖြစ်သည်။ 
 ဝီကီပီဒီးယား စွယ်စုံကျမ်းပါ ဆောင်းပါးများတွင် ဖော်ပြထားသော၊ အသုံးပြုထားသော သို့မဟုတ် ကိုးကားဖော်ပြထားသော အမှတ်တံဆိပ်များ၊ ဝန်ဆောင်မှုအမှတ်အသားများ၊ စုပေါင်းအမှတ်အသားများ၊ ဒီဇိုင်းဆိုင်ရာ မူပိုင်အခွင့်အရေးများ သို့မဟုတ် အလားတူအခွင့်အရေးများကို ဝီကီပီဒီးယား စွယ်စုံကျမ်း၏ ဆောင်းပါးများတွင် ဖော်ပြထားခြင်းများသည် သက်ဆိုင်ရာပိုင်ရှင်များ၏ ပိုင်ဆိုင်မှုဖြစ်သည်။ ဤနေရာတွင် ၎င်းတို့၏အသုံးပြုမှုသည် CC-BY-SA နှင့် GFDL လိုင်စင်အစီအစဉ်များအောက်ရှိ ဤဝီကီပီးဒီးယားဆောင်းပါးများ၏ မူရင်းစာရေးဆရာများမှ တွေးခေါ်ထားသည့်အတိုင်း တူညီသော သို့မဟုတ် အလားတူသတင်းအချက်အလက်အသုံးပြုမှုမှလွဲ၍ အခြားမည်သည့်ရည်ရွယ်ချက်အတွက်မဆို ၎င်းတို့ကို အသုံးပြုနိုင်ကြောင်း မဆိုလိုပါ။ အခြားနည်းဖြင့် မဖော်ပြထားပါက၊ ဝီကီပီဒီးယားနှင့် ဝီကီမီဒီယာဆိုဒ်များသည် ယင်းအခွင့်အရေးကို ကိုင်ဆောင်ထားသူများနှင့် သက်ဆိုင်ခြင်းမရှိသကဲ့သို့၊ ဝီကီပီဒီးယားနှင့် အခြားသော ကာကွယ်ထားသည့်ပစ္စည်းများကို အသုံးပြုရန် မည်သည့်အခွင့်အရေးကိုမှ မပေးနိုင်ပါ။ ထိုကဲ့သို့သော သို့မဟုတ် အလားတူသော ပေါင်းစပ်ပစ္စည်းပိုင်ဆိုင်မှုကို သင့်အနေဖြင့် အသုံးပြုခြင်း သင့်တာဝန်သာ ဖြစ်သည်။
 အသက်ရှိဆဲ သို့မဟုတ် မကြာသေးမီက ကွယ်လွန်ခဲ့သည့် မှတ်မိသိရှိနိုင်ဖွယ်ရှိသော လူပုဂ္ဂိုလ်အကြောင်း ဖော်ပြချက် အကြောင်းအရာများ ဝီကီပီဒီးယားတွင် ပါဝင်သည်။ အသက်ရှိဆဲ သို့မဟုတ် ကွယ်လွန်ခဲ့ပြီးသော ပုဂ္ဂိုလ်များ၏ ပုံများကို အသုံးပြုရာတွင် တရားစီရင်မှု တချို့နှင့် ငြိစွန်းခြင်း၊ တသီးပုဂ္ဂလ အခွင့်အရေးများအရ ဥပဒေဖြင့် တင်းကြပ်ထားခြင်း၊ မူပိုင်ခွင့်မှ လွတ်မြောက်နေခြင်းများ ဖြစ်နိုင်ပါသည်။ အဆိုပါ အမျိုးအစား အကြောင်းအရာများကို အသုံးမပြုမီ သင်အသုံးပြုရန် ရည်စူးထားသည့် အနေအထားတွင် ဥပဒေကြောင်းအရ အသုံးပြုခွင့် ရှိကြောင်း သေချာအောင် ကျေးဇူးပြု၍ လုပ်ဆောင်ပါ။  
 ဝီကီပီဒီးယားပါ သတင်းအချက်အလက် ဖော်ပြချက်များသည် သင် ဖတ်ရှုသည့်နေရာဒေသ၏ ဥပဒေများ၊ တရားစီရင်ရေးရာများကို ချိုးဖောက်ရာ ရောက်ကောင်း ရောက်နိုင်ပါသည်။ ဝီကီပီဒီးယား ဒေတာအထိုင်ကို  ၊ ဖလော်ရီဒါပြည်နယ်ရှိ ဆာဗာတွင် သိမ်းဆည်းထားပါသည်။ ထို့အပြင် ဒေသတွင်းနှင့် ဖက်ဒရယ် ဥပဒေများဖြင့် ရည်ညွှန်းကိုးကားချက်များကို အကာအကွယ်ယူ ထိန်းသိမ်းထားပါသည်။ သင်နေထိုင်ရာ နိုင်ငံ၏ ဥပဒေ သို့မဟုတ် တရားစီရင်ရေးသည် အလားတူ မိန့်ဆိုချက် သို့မဟုတ် အထောက်အကူပေးချက်များကို အကာအကွယ်ပေးချင်မှ ပေးနိုင်ပါလိမ့်မည်။ ဝီကီပီဒီးယားအနေဖြင့် မည်သည့်ဥပဒေ ချိုးဖောက်မှုကိုမှ အားမပေးပါ။ ဤတွင် ပါဝင်နေသော သတင်းအချက်အလက်များကို ပြန်လည် ဖော်ပြချက် သို့မဟုတ် ပြန်လည် ထုတ်လုပ်ချက် သို့မဟုတ် အသုံးပြုထားချက် သို့မဟုတ် ဒိုမိန်းလိပ်စာ ချိတ်ဆက်ထားမှုတို့ကြောင့် ဖြစ်ပေါ်သော မည်သည့်ဥပဒေ ချိုးဖောက်မှုကိုမှ တာဝန် မခံနိုင်ပါ။
 အထူးအကြံဉာဏ် (ဥပမာ ဆေးပညာဆိုင်ရာ၊ ဥပဒေဆိုင်ရာ၊ ဘဏ္ဍာရေးဆိုင်ရာ သို့မဟုတ် အန္တရာယ်အခြေအနေကို စီမံခန့်ခွဲမှု) လိုအပ်လျှင် အဆိုပါ နယ်ပယ်တွင် ဗဟုသုတ ကြွယ်ဝသူ သို့မဟုတ် လုပ်ပိုင်ခွင့် လိုင်စင်ရသူ ပညာရှင် (professional) ကို ရှာဖွေမေးမြန်းပါ။


URL: https://no.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Generelle_forbehold

Content:  er en   som ligger tilgjengelig på  . Innholdet er åpent, det vil si at det skapes av en frivillig sammenslutning av enkeltpersoner og grupper, som utvikler en felles ressurs av menneskelig viten. Strukturen tillater enhver å endre på det innholdet som finnes her. Derfor er det som står i Wikipedia ikke nødvendigvis gjennomgått av profesjonelle med spesialkunnskap innenfor de ulike områder, som er nødvendige for å sikre fullstendige, presise og pålitelige opplysninger.
 Dette betyr ikke at man ikke kan finne mange verdifulle og nøyaktige opplysninger i Wikipedia, men   Opplysningene kan være forandret, vandalisert eller endret av noen med mangelfulle kunnskaper.
 Informasjonen på Wikipedia stilles gratis og frivillig til rådighet, og det etableres ingen form for avtale eller kontrakt som kan begrunne rettskrav fra brukerne av informasjonen direkte mot eierne av dette nettstedet, eierne av tjenerne det ligger på, de enkelte bidragsytere til Wikipedia, prosjektets administratorer, systemoperatører eller noen andre som   dette prosjektet eller dets søsterprosjekter.
 Du har en begrenset rett til å kopiere informasjon fra Wikipedia. Dette skaper ikke og det omfatter ikke noen kontraktslige eller utenomkontraktslige forpliktelser for Wikipedia, eller for noen av dets representanter, medlemmer, organisatorer eller andre brukere.
 Opplysninger som finnes på Wikipedia kan stride mot lovene i det landet eller rettsområdet hvor man ser disse opplysninger fra. Wikipedia oppfordrer ikke til lovovertredelse, men da informasjonen er lagret i delstaten Florida i USA, vedlikeholdes de med henvisning til den beskyttelse som sikres av   grunnlovs første tillegg og av FNs  .
 , da det er en frivillig sammenslutning av enkeltpersoner, som fritt har utviklet den for å skape forskjellige åpne ressurser av utdannelsesmessig, kulturell og informativ art på internettet.   og det finnes   angående bruk eller endring av opplysningene ut over  . Likeledes er ingen bidragsytere eller andre tilknyttet Wikipedia ansvarlig hvis noen skulle endre, redigere, modifisere eller fjerne noen av de opplysninger enkeltpersoner måtte legge inn på Wikipedia eller noen av dens tilknyttede prosjekter.
 Takk for at du har brukt tid på å lese denne siden.


URL: https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 
  – 
  – 
  – 
  –  
 
 
 
 Wikipedia is an encyclopedia on the Internet that is edited by anyone who wants to help. The way it works means that anyone with who can view the Internet can change what is written. When you read Wikipedia, you should remember that we cannot make sure that our information is checked by people who can make it complete, accurate or reliable.
 That does not mean that there is not useful, correct information in Wikipedia; there is lots.  However,   Any article may have been changed or vandalized by someone who thinks they know what is correct, but is not aware of the current facts of the topics they are writing about.
 We are developing ways to find versions of articles which are more correct, and show them to our readers. The people who help make Wikipedia use up-to-date lists like the   and   to watch new and changing pages. However, Wikipedia is not all checked by experts. Although readers might correct errors and some experts may  , they do not have a   to make changes. So, just because we have information here, this does not mean that we think it is all true, or useful for anything you want to do with it. We are not promising you that it is correct. Before you think that something might be correct, remember that   articles might have been badly changed to be wrong just before you see them, even ones that had - before - been   by experts or chosen as  .
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC-BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or deceased recently. The use of images of living or recently deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.  
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution. Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.
 Thank you for reading this; we hope you enjoy your time at Simple English Wikipedia.
 


URL: https://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:%E5%85%8D%E8%B2%AC%E4%BA%8B%E9%A0%85

Content: 
 
 本サイトは、あなたに対して何も保証しません。本サイトの関係者（他の利用者も含む）は、あなたに対して一切責任を負いません。あなたが、本サイトを利用（閲覧、投稿、外部での再利用など全てを含む）する場合は、自己責任で行う必要があります。
 ウィキペディア (Wikipedia) は、無償のボランティアの参加者の貢献によって執筆、編集されている百科事典であり、その編集方針、百科事典作成プロジェクトとしての運営方針などもボランティアの議論によって決められています。プロジェクトへの参加資格の制限はなく、参加者には一定期間または一定量の貢献をすることなどの義務はありません。さらに、ウィキペディアでは、ウィキウィキウェブとよばれるシステムを採用することによって、ほぼ全てのページが、いつでも、誰にでも書き換えられるような状態にしてあります。
 ウィキペディアで使用しているソフトウェア は、無償のボランティアの貢献によって作成・改良されているものです。また、ウィキペディアの運営資金は、有志の寄付によって提供されており、アメリカ合衆国フロリダ州にある非営利団体「 」を通じて管理・提供されています。そして、ウィキペディアのサーバの大部分は、アメリカ合衆国フロリダ州にあります。
 ウィキペディアは200以上の言語にまたがって展開される であり、その参加者も世界中の多くの国々において活動しています。URLが   に始まる諸ページからなる本サイトは、そのウィキペディアの1つです。もちろん、日本語版の参加者にも、日本以外の世界のさまざまな地域から参加している人も大勢います。
 最後になりましたが、ウィキペディアでは、CC-BY-SA4.0 InternationalおよびGFDLを採用することによって、ウィキペディアが提供するコンテンツについて、公正な「引用」以上の自由な改変・再利用を容易にしています。つまり、著作権関係の煩雑な手続きを、 の概念によって簡略化しようというものです。
 
 
 
 本サイトのコンテンツに記載された会社名・製品名は、各法人または個人の登録商標または商標です。百科事典としての可読性を保つため、文中での®記号、™記号は省略しています。
 
 GFDL Version 1.2 の 第1項 (section 1) 10段落目にある “Warranty Disclaimers” （直訳すれば「保証否認声明書」）となるこの文書は、GFDLにおける免責を補完します。
 このページは、本サイトのみに適用されるもので、他のウィキメディア・プロジェクト（ウィキペディアの他の言語版やウィキブックスなどの姉妹プロジェクト）については、各々が提示する文書がありますので、それに従ってください。
 特に、それら他のウィキメディア・プロジェクトから翻訳されたページについては、元のプロジェクトで提供されている「免責事項」規定も合わせて適用する必要があります。他言語版ウィキペディアの「免責事項」は本ページからの他言語リンクを参照してください。そのほかのウィキメディア･プロジェクトの免責事項は、英語版の “Disclaimers” に相当する位置のリンクをたどってください。


URL: https://sq.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Shfaj%C3%ABsimet_e_p%C3%ABrgjithshme

Content: :
 
 W  N  J  G  S   
  ështe një enciklopedi me përmbajtje të hapur, bashkëpunuese, në linjë, që nënkupton një shoqëri njerëzish e grupesh që janë duke zhvilluar një burim të përbashkët të dijes njerëzore. Ndërtimi i projektit lejon këdo me një lidhje interneti dhe World Wide Web(Rrjet Mbarë Botëror) shfletues (browser) të ndryshojë përmbajtjen e tij. Mbani parasysh se të dhënat e gjetura këtu jo domosdoshmërisht janë riparë nga persona me aftësitë e duhura për t`ju pajisur me të dhëna të plota, të sakta e të besueshme.
 Kjo nuk do të thotë se ju nuk do të gjeni të dhëna të vlefshme e të sakta Wikipedia: në më të shumtën e rasteve ju do ti gjeni. Megjithëatë,  . Përmbajtja e çdo artikulli (shkrimi) mund të jetë ndryshuar apo dëmtuar së fundmi nga persona mendimi i të cilëve nuk përkon me gjendjen e dijeve në fushat përkatëse.
 Ne punojmë për gjetjen e mënyrave për të zgjedhur dhe nxjerrë në pah versione të besueshme artikujsh. Bashkësia jonë aktive e përgatitësve (botuesve) përdor mjete të tilla si    dhe    që ndihmojnë në mbikëqyrjen e ndryshimeve të përmbajtjeve. Megjithatë,   nuk bën rishikime hulumtuese të përhershme; për sa kohë lexuesit mund të ndreqin gabimet apo merren me këtë çështje  , ata s`kanë të drejtë ligjore ta bëjnë këtë dhe kështu të gjitha të dhënat e lexuara nuk japin siguri për përdorim të dobishëm për ndonjë qëllim të caktuar apo për çfarëdo përdorimi tjetër. Madje artikujt që janë hulumtuar nga rishikime shqyrtuese e përshtatëse apo ecuritë e një   mundet që më vonë te jenë përpunuar me mangësi, pikërisht përpara se ju t`i shihni ata.
 Ju lutemi, sigurohuni të kuptoni që informacioni i afruar këtu është falas dhe që s`ka asnjë lloj ujdie (pajtese) apo kontrate që është krijuar mes jush dhe pronarëve apo përdoruesve të kësaj faqeje, pronarëve shërbyes mbi të cilët strehohet, ndihmuesve individualë të  -s, ndonjë projekt drejtuesish, administratorësh, apo cilitdo tjetër që është   me këtë projekt apo me projekte motra, u përgjigjen ankesave tuaja direkte kundër tyre. Juve u jepet një leje e kufizuar të kopjoni çdo gjë nga kjo faqe; nuk krijon apo sajon ndonjë përgjegjësi kontrate ose jashtëkontrate nga ana e  s, apo ndonjë nga agjentët, anëtarët, organizuesit ose përdorues të tjerë.
  lidhur me përdorimin apo përpilimin tuaj të këtij informacioni përtej   (GFDL); as është ndonjë në   përgjegjës nëse ndokush ndryshon, përpunon, përpilon apo heq ndonjë informacion që ju mund të vendosni në   ose ndonjë prej projekteve të shoqëruara me të.
 Seicila prej shenjave tregëtare, shenjat e shërbimit, shenjat e bashkësive, të drejtat e vizatimeve, të drejtat vetjake apo të drejta të ngjashme që janë përmendur, përdoruar apo cituar në artikujt e enciklopedisë së Wikipedias janë pronë e pronarëve të tyre përkatës. Përdorimi i tyre nuk nënkupton që ju mund t´i përdorni ato për ndonjë qëllim tjetër seç per te njëjtin ose përdorimin e ngjashëm informues, siç është paramenduar nga autorët origjinalë të atyre artikujve Wikipedianë, nën lejen e projektit GFDL. Ose e thënë ndryshe Wikipedia dhe faqet e saj nuk janë as të nënshkruara (vërtetësuara) as të anëtarësuara me ndonjë prej mbajtësve të ndonjë të drejte të tillë, dhe si e tillë   nuk mund t´ju sigurojë ndonjë të drejtë të përdorni ndonjë apo lëndë të mbrojtur.  
 Botimi i të dhënave të gjetura në   mund të jetë në kundravajtje me ligjet e vendit apo juridiksionit nga ku ju jeni duke parë këto të dhëna. Baza e të dhënave të Wikipedias ruhet në një shërbyes në Shtetin e   në   dhe mbahet duke u bazuar në mbrojtjen e dhënë nga ligjet federale vendase. Ligjet e vendit apo juridiksionit tuaj mund të mos mbrojnë apo lejojnë të njëjtat lloje të shprehjes apo shpërndarjes.   nuk nxit shkeljen e ndonjë ligji; dhe nuk mund të jetë përgjegjëse për shkelje të ndonjë ligji, nëse ju lidheni me këtë domen (zotërim) apo përdorni, riprodhoni, ose ribotoni të dhënat(njohuritë) e përmbajtura këtu.
 Nëse ju keni nevojë për këshilla të veçanta (p.sh., mbi mjekësinë, ligjin, apo menaxhimin e riskut) ju lutemi drejtojuni një profesionisti të lejuar ose të mirënjoftuar me atë fushë. Shiko  ,  , dhe   për shfajësime të veçanta.
 Ju faleminderit që morët kohën për të lexuar këtë faqe, dhe ju lutemi shijoni përdorimin tuaj të Wikipedias.
 Meqë enciklopedi të tjera, jo si Wikipedia, vëzhgohen rishqyrtueshëm profesionalisht, ato ende nuk garantojnë përmbajtjen e tyre.
 Shiko edhe:  .


URL: https://si.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B7%80%E0%B7%92%E0%B6%9A%E0%B7%92%E0%B6%B4%E0%B7%93%E0%B6%A9%E0%B7%92%E0%B6%BA%E0%B7%8F:%E0%B6%B4%E0%B7%9C%E0%B6%AF%E0%B7%94_%E0%B7%80%E0%B7%92%E0%B6%BA%E0%B7%8F%E0%B6%A0%E0%B6%B1%E0%B6%BA

Content: 
 විකිපීඩියා යනු මාර්ගගත, විවෘත-අන්තර්ගත, හා  සහයෝගීත්වය මග පදනම් වූ විශ්වකෝෂයක් එනම්, මානව දැනුම පිළිබඳ පොදු සම්පතක් පිළියෙල කිරීම සඳහා නියැලෙන තනි පුද්ගලයන් හා කණ්ඩායම් වල ස්වේච්ඡා එකමුතුවකි. අන්තර්ජාල සම්බන්ධතාවයක් හිමි ඕනෑම අයෙකුට එහි අන්තර්ගතය වෙනස් කිරීමට මෙම ව්‍යාපෘතියෙහි ව්‍යුහය ඉඩ සලසයි.  මෙහි ඔබ හට හමුවන කිසිදු ‍තොරතුරක්, උචිත ප්‍රවීණතාවකින් හෙබි අයවලුන් විසින්  සමාලෝචනය කොට,  පරිපූර්ණ, නිරවද්‍ය ‍ හෝ විශ්වසනීය බවට සහතික කර නැති බව කරුණාවෙන් සලකන්න.
 විකිපීඩියාව තුළින් වටිනා හා නිරවද්‍ය තොරතුරු උකහා ගත නොහැකි බවක් මෙයින් කිසිසේත් ගම්‍ය නොවේ; බොහෝ විට එවැනි මහඟු අවස්ථා හිමි වේ.  එනමුදු,    ප්‍රස්තූත ක්ෂේත්‍රයන්හි අනුභූතිය පිළිබඳ වත්මන් ස්වභාවයට අනූරූප නොවන්නාවූ මතයන් දරන කිසියම් අයෙකු විසින්, ඕනෑම ලිපියක අන්තර්ගතය මෑතකදී වෙනස්කිරීමට,  විරූපී කිරීමට හෝ විවර්තනය කිරීමට ලක් වී තිබිය හැකිය.  
 ලිපි වල විශ්වාසනීය අනුවාදයන් තෝරා ඒවා ඉස්මතු කර පෙන්වීමේ පිළිවෙතක් අප විසින් සකස් කරමින් පවතියි.  නව හා වෙනස් වන්නාවූ අන්තර්ගතය පිළිබඳ අවධානයෙන් පසුවීම හැකි කරවන තොරතුරු  පෝෂක ලෙස, අපගේ ක්‍රියාශීලි සංස්කාරක ප්‍රජාව විසින්,    හා   වැනි මෙවලම් භාවිතා කරයි.  එනමුදු, විකිපීඩියාව සමජාතීය ලෙස, සමානයන් විසින් සමාලෝචනය කිරීමක් සිදු නොවේ; පාඨකයන් විසින් දොස් නිදොස් කළ හැකි අතර ඔවුනට අනියම් අයුරින්   සහභාගී වීමටද  හැකි නමුදු එසේ සිදු කළ යුතු බවට ඔවුන් නෛතික ලෙස බැඳී නොමැති අතර, එමනිසාම මෙහිදී කියැවීමට ලැබෙන සියලු තොරතුරු කුමක් නමුත් කාර්යයකට සුදුසු බවට ගම්‍යමාන යෝග්‍යතා වගකීමක් සහිත නොවන බව සැලකිය යුතු වේ.  අවිධිමත් ලෙස සමානයන්ගේ සමාලෝචනයට හෝ    සැකසුමෙහි කාර්යාවලියට බඳුන් වී  එතුළින් අගැයුමට භාජනය වූ  ලිපි වුවද,  ඉක්බිතිව හා ඔබ විසින් ඒවා නැරඹීමට මෙහොතකට පෙර, නුසුදුසු ලෙස සංස්කරණයට ලක් වී තිබීමට ඉඩ කඩ ඇත.
 
 මෙහි සැපයෙන තොරතුරු නිදහස් ලෙස සැපයෙන බවද, ඔබ හා මෙම අඩවියෙහි අයිතිකරුවන් හෝ පරිශීලකයන්, මෙම අඩවිය නිවසන සර්වරයෙහි හිමිකරුවන්, විකිපීඩියාවට පුද්ගලිකව දායකවන්නන්, ව්‍යාපෘති පරිපාලකවරුන්, පද්ධති-මෙහෙයවන්නන් හෝ  අතුරින් කෙනෙක්,   අතර කිසිදු බැඳුම්කරයක් හෝ ගිවිසුම් පත්‍රයක් බලපැවැත්වෙන්නේ නොමැති බවද,  මෙහි සපයා ඇති තොරතුරු නොමිලේ ලබා දෙන බවද, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extra-contractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 මෙම තොරතුරු ඔබ විසින් භාවිතය හෝ වෙනස් කිරීම් සම්බන්ධයෙන්   (GFDL)එකෙන් ඔබ්බට ගිය ගිවිසුමක් හෝ අවබෝධතාවයක් ඔබ සහ විකිපීඩියා අතර නැත; එමෙන්ම ඔබ විසින් විකිපීඩියා හි පළ කරන ඕනෑම තොරතුරක් හෝ ඊට සම්බන්ධ ඕනෑම ව්‍යාපෘතියක් කිසියම් කෙනෙක් විසින් වෙනස් කිරීම, සංස්කරණය කිරීම හෝ ඉවත් කිරීම සම්බන්ධයෙන් විකිපීඩියා හි කිසිවෙක් වගකිවයුතු නැත.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, or similar rights that are mentioned, used, or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated, Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by, nor affiliated with, any of the holders of any such rights, and as such, Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or recently-deceased. The use of images of living or recently-deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.  
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution. Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain, or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 විශේෂිත උපදෙස් ඔබ හට ඇවැසි නම් (නිදසුනක් ලෙස, වෛද්‍ය, නීතිමය, මූල්‍ය, හෝ ආපදා කළමනාකරණය) එම ක්ෂේත්‍රයෙහි වර ලත් හෝ දැනුමින් පරිපුන් වූ හෝ වෘත්තියවේදියෙකුගේ සහය පතන්න.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Risk_disclaimer

Content: 
 
 Some information on Wikipedia may create an unreasonable risk for readers who choose to apply or use the information in their own activities, or to promote the information for use by third parties.
 None of the authors, contributors, administrators, vandals, or anyone else connected with Wikipedia, in any way whatsoever, can be responsible for your use of the information contained in or linked from these web pages.
 Please take all steps necessary to ascertain that information you receive from Wikipedia is correct and has been verified. Check the   at the end of the article, and read the article's   and   to see if there are outstanding disputes over the contents of the article. Double-check all information with independent sources.
 If an article contains suggestions regarding dangerous, illegal, or unethical activities,  . The authors may not be qualified to provide you with complete information or to inform you about adequate safety precautions and other measures to prevent injury, or other damage to your person, property, or reputation. If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, marital or risk management), please seek a professional licensed or knowledgeable in that area.
 
 No consequential damages can be sought against Wikipedia, as it is a voluntary association of individuals formed to create freely-licensed online educational, cultural, and informational resources. This information is being given to you gratuitously, and   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC BY-SA), and the   (GFDL).
 


URL: https://sco.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclamation

Content: Fae the  
 This is an informational wabsteid that's ocht the   (here-efter "Wikimedia"). The content o this steid is fendit freely, an nae kynd o greement or contract is made atween you an the awners or uisers o this steid, the awners o the servers that this is hoosed on, indiveedual contreebutors tae thir pages, or project admineestrators, sysops or ony ither body adae wi this project subject tae your claims agin thaim direct. Ye are gien a leemitit license tae copy onything fae this steid; it disna mak or implee ony contractual or extracontractual liabeelity on the pairt o Wikimedia or ony o its factors, members, organizers or ither uisers.
 Ony o the treddmerks, service merks, collective merks, design richts, personality richts or sic seemilar richts that's mentiont, uised or edict on this steid is ocht thair respective awners. Unless ithergates statit, Wikimedia steids is naither endorsed bi nor affeeliate wi ony o the hauders o sic richts, nor can Wikimedia grant richts tae uise ithergates protectit maiter. Ye uise sicna incorporeal property at yer ain risk.
 Please merk that the wittins fund here micht owergae the laws o the kintra or stewartry that ye are viewin thir wittins fae. Wikipedia disna forder the owergaun o ony laws, but thir wittins is hained on a server in the State o Floridae in the Unitit States o Americae, an is mainteent in reference tae the protections affuirdit content fenders an readers in that stewartry. The laws in your kintra michna recogneeze a seemilar braid protection o free speak; Wikipedia canna be hauden tae richts for the potential owergaun o sicna laws, gin ye airt tae this domain or reuise ony o the wittins inby.


URL: https://mwl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biquip%C3%A9dia:Abiso_legal

Content: 
 La   — coincida anternacionalmente cumo   — ye ua anciclopédia   de cuntenido abierto, esto ye, ua associaçon d'andebíduos que beluntariamente se dedícan a la criaçon dun grande repositório de todo l coincimiento houmano. Sue strutura premite que qualquiera andebíduo cun ua lhigaçon a la Anterneta i un nabegador   puoda altarar l cuntenido eiqui ancuntrado. Antoce, l outelizador debe tener an atençon que nada garante que l cuntenudo eiqui çponeblizado tenga sido rebisto por porfissionales debidamente credenciados nas árias de coincimiento an queston, de modo a poder dar anformaçones cumpletas, percisas i credibles subre qualquiera assunto eiqui abordado.
 Esto nun quier dezir que la Biquipédia nun cuntenha muitas anformaçones percisas i baliosas. Esto quier dezir solo que la   Eilhas puoden tener sido altaradas ó bandalizadas por alguien cun ua oupenion que nun corresponda al "stado de l coincimiento" na ária particular que l'outelizador stá antressado an coincer. La Wikipédia stá a trabalhar an nuobas formas de selecionar i aprobar bersones fiables de ls artigos mas, mesmo assi, sin dar garanties.
 Nanhun de ls outores, cuntribuidores, patrocinadores, admenistradores (de l cuntenido ó de l sistema), nin naide lhigado d'algua maneira a la Wikipédia puode ser respunsablizado por qualesquiera anformaçones amprecisas ó difamatórias eiqui cuntenidas, nin pul uso que se puoda fazer de tales anformaçones.
 Todas las marcas registradas ó parecidas, ambolbendo dreitos d'outor, que séian mencionadas, outelizadas ó citadas ne ls artigos de la Biquipédia son propiadades de sous respetibos duonhos. Sou uso neste sítio nun outoriza naide a outelizá-las lhibremente cun outros perpósitos para alhá de l'oubjetibo anformatibo de l'outor oureginal desses artigos. Salbo quando specificado an cuntrairo, ls sítios de la Wikimedia Foundation, antre ls quales stá la Biquipédia, nun son andossados nin afeliados a nanhun de ls propiatairos destes dreitos i, cumo tal, la Biquipédia nun puode cunceder dreitos d'uso subre nanhun material que tenga l sou uso restrito por dreitos outorales ó parecidos.
 Las anformaçones na Wikipédia puoden biolar la lhegislaçon aplicable an detreminados países ó jurisdiçones. La Biquipédia nun ancita la biolaçon de nanhue lhei, mas cumo las anformaçones stan guardadas an serbidores ne ls Stados Ounidos de la América i an alguns países de la Ouropa, eilhas son regidas pulas proteçones garantidas als cidadanos desses países. Inda assi, nin todos ls países de l mundo dan ua proteçon a la lhibardade de spresson tan ampla cumo ls Stados Ounidos ó la Ounion Ouropeia, pul que la Wikipédia nun puode ser, de nanhun modo, respunsablizada por ua eibentual biolaçon dessas lheis, pul uso que un outelizador dun desses países puoda fazer de las anformaçones na Biquipédia.
 L'outelizador que percisar d'acunselhamiento specífico (por eisemplo: médico, lhegal, financeiro, etc.) ye bibamente acunselhado a percurar un porfissional de la ária.
 La Biquipédia nun ye rebista de forma custante i ouniforme. Anque de ls lheitores puodan corregir erros ó remober anformaçones ancorretas, eilhes nun ténen nanhue oubrigaçon lhegal de fazé-lo, pul que nanhue anformaçon ancuntrada eiqui ten qualquiera garantie de serbir a qualquiera uso ó perpósito specífico.
 Las anformaçones de la Wikipédia son çponiblizadas de grácia, nun habendo nanhun acuordo ó cuntrato antre l'outelizador i la Biquipédia cun respeito al uso ó modeficaçon dessas anformaçones para alhá de la   (CC-BY-SA) i de la  . La Biquipédia nun puode ser respunsablizada se alguien eiditar, demudar ó apagar qualquiera anformaçon que qualquiera outelizador tenga antroduzido na Biquipédia ó an qualquiera un de ls porjetos relacionados.


URL: https://arz.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%D9%8A%D9%83%D9%8A%D8%A8%D9%8A%D8%AF%D9%8A%D8%A7:%D8%AA%D9%86%D8%A7%D8%B2%D9%84_%D8%B9%D9%86_%D9%85%D8%B3%D8%A6%D9%88%D9%84%D9%8A%D9%87_%D8%B9%D9%85%D9%88%D9%85%D9%89

Content: 
 ويكيبيديا ها موسوعه انترنت تعاونيه مفتوحة المحتوى, و هيا شراكه بين المتطوعين الافراد و المجموعات و اللى بيشتغلو على تطوير مصدر معرفى بشرى عام. بتسمح بنية المشروع لكل شخص متصل بالانترنت يعدل المحتوى. لازم تعرف ان مافيش فى المشروع داه حاجه بتلزم انه تمت مصادرته من اهل الخبره المؤهلين لتزويدك بمعلومات معتمده او دقيقه او كامله.
 داه ما بيعنيش انك مش هتلاقى معلومات قيمه و دقيقه فى ويكيبيديا, بالعكس فيه كتير منها, بس بالرغم من داه  , محتوى كل مقاله ممكن يكون اتعدل او   او اتغير من افراد ما بتتطابقش آرائهم مع النصوص المعرفيه فى المجالات المتعلقه بالمقاله. لاحظ ان اكتر الموسوعات و المصادر فيها اخلاء مسؤوليه كمان.
 محررو مجتمع ويكيبيديا النشطين بيستعملو ادوات زى تغذيات   و   عشان يراقبو تعديلات المحتوى و المحتوى الجديد, و بالرغم من دا ويكيبيديا مافيهاش مصادرة اقران رسميه, القراء ممكن يصححو الاخطاء او يشتركو فى الاراء, بس مش مجبرين بدا و بالتالى كل المعلومات هنا مالهاش اى ضمانات دايما, و حتى المقالات اللى تمت مراجعتها عبر الاقران الرسميه او هيا  , ممكن يحصل عليها تعديل مش مناسب قبل ما تقراها.
 
 المعلومات هنا باتقدم بشكل حر, و مافيش عقد بينك و بين مستخدمين او مسؤولين الموقع داه او مسؤولين الخوادم اللى بتستضيف معلومات الموقع, و لا الافراد المساهمين و لا اداريين المشاريع و لا مشغلين النظام, و لا كل مين ليه صله بالمشروع داه  , و لا بالمشاريع الشقيقه, كمان هما مش عرضه لادعاءاتك المباشره ضدهم. ليك رخصه محدوده بنسخ اى حاجه من الموقع داه, و الرخصه ما بتدلش لا تصريحا او تلميحا على اى التزام تعاقدى او غير تعاقدى من جهة ويكيبيديا او واحد من وكلائها او اعضائها او منظميها او مستخدمين تانيين.
 بخصوص استعمالك او تعديلك للمعلومات,   الا حسب رخصة المشاع الابداعى النسبه-الترخيص بالمثل 3.0 (CC-BY-SA) و رخصه جنو للوثائق الحره (GFDL), و ما بيتحملش اى شخص فى ويكيبيديا مسؤولية تغيير او تنقيح او تعديل او حذف معلومات ممكن تنشرها انت على ويكيبيديا او اى من المشاريع المرتبطه بيها.
 كل علامه تجاريه او علامه خدمه او علامه جماعيه او حقوق تصميم و و الى زييها من الحقوق المشار ليها او المستعمله او المستشهد بيها فى مقالات ويكيبيديا هيا ملك لاصحابها بالكامل, دا ما بيستلزمش انه جايز ليك تستعملها لاى غرض غير الاستعمال المعلوماتى المماثل او المشابه للى كان بيقصده المؤلفين الاصليين للمقالات فى ويكيبيديا حسب رخصة المشاع الابداعى النسبه-الترخيص بالمثل 3.0 (CC-BY-SA) و رخصه جنو للوثائق الحره (GFDL). مواقع ويكيبيديا و ويكيميديا ما بتديش تاييد من اصحاب الحقوق و لا المشاركه معهم, و ويكيبيديا مالهاش انها تمنح حقوق استعمال المواد المحميه الا حسب الرخص المذكوره. استخدامك لاى من المواد دى او اللى شبهها هيكون على مسؤوليتك الخاصه.
 ويكيبيديا بتحتوى مواد ممكن تظهر فيها صور اشخاص ممكن التعرف عليهم سواء كانوا عايشيين او اتوفو مؤخرا. استعمال صور الاحياء او اللى اتوفو, كلها مقيده حسب ضوابط حقوق الشخصيه فى بعض النظم القضائيه, بمعزل عن حالة حقوق النشر الخاصه بيها. قبل استعمال الانواع دى من المحتوى, لو سمحت التاكد من حصولك على حق استعمالها حسب القانون اللى بيتطابق مع الظروف المطلوبه لاستعمالك.  .
 ممكن تقرا فى ويكيبيديا معلومات و انت فى دوله او بعض المناطق اللى ما بتسمحش بنشر المعلومات دى. لازم تعرف ان قاعدة بيانات ويكيبيديا موجوده فى الولايات المتحده الامريكيه, و بيحافظ عليها بموجب الحمايه اللى بتسمح بيها القوانين المحليه و الفدراليه هناك. القوانين اللى فى دولتك او بعض مناطقها ممكن ما تحميش او ما بتسمحش ببعض الانواع من المواد او التوزيع. ويكيبيديا ما بتشجعش على خرق القوانين, و ما تقدرش تتحمل مسؤولية اى خروقات للقوانين دى.
 لو احتجت مشوره اختصاصيه (زى مشوره طبيه او قانونيه او ماليه او ادارة مخاطر), لازم تطلبها من اهل الاختصاص المرخصين او المعروفين فى مجالهم.


URL: https://sah.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%91%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B8%D1%8D%D0%B4%D1%8C%D0%B8%D0%B9%D1%8D:%D0%91%D2%AF%D0%BA_%D0%BE%D1%85%D1%81%D1%83%D0%BD%D1%83%D1%83

Content: 
 , дьон уонна дьон бөлөхтөрө түмсэн киһи-аймах билиитин мунньар  -энциклопедиялара. Бырайыак тутула ханнык баҕарар Интэриниэттээх уонна браузердаах киһи бырайыак ис хоһоонун уларытарын көҥүллүүр. Ол иһин, манна суруллубуту сорҕотун идэтийбит, билиилээх дьон көрө, тургута илик буолуон сөп, онон, бука диэн, манна барыта эҥкилэ суох итэҕэтиилээх суруллар диэн саныыр табыллыбат. 
 Бикипиэдьийэҕэ элбэх туһалаах баарын үрдүнэн, онно   өйдүөхтээххин. Ааҕар түгэҥҥэр уларытылла охсубут, алҕас киирбит эбэтэр үгүс дьон санаатын кытта сөп түбэспэт санаалаах киһи уларыппыт буолуон сөп.  
 Биһиги ыстатыйалар итэҕэтиилээх буолар суолларын куруук көрдүү турабыт, ол эрээри тугу да мэктиэлиир, эрэннэрэр кыахпыт суох. Биир ситиһиибит —  , ол гынан баран, оннооҕор ол ыстатыйалары кытта ким эрэ Эн ааҕыаҥ иннинэ аҕай уларыта охсубут буолуон сөп.
 Манна баар билии барыта аһаҕас, үтүө дьайыы быһыытынан көрдөрүллэр. Эн уонна ситим-сир бас билээччилэрин, сиэрбэр бас билээччилэрин, Бикипиэдьийэ ааптардарын, дьаһабылларын, ону тэҥэ Бикипиэдьийэни кытта   уонна атылыы бырайыактары кытта туох да ирдэбил төрүөтэ буолар сөбүлэҥэ, сөбүлэһии түһэрсиитэ суох көрдөрүллэрин, бука диэн, өйдүүргүтүгэр көрдөһөбүт. Бу ситим-сир иһинээҕитин сүһэн ылар хааччахтаах быраап Эйиэхэ бэриллэр — бу быраап Бикипиэдьийэ ханнык да сорҕото эбэтэр кини ааҕыннара, кыттааччылара, тэрийээччилэрэ уонна атын туһанааччылара эппиэтинэһи сүгэллэрин хааччыйбат. 
 Табаар, сулууспа уонна тэрилтэ ханнык баҕарар бэлиэтэ, аата, тас көстүүгэ быраап, ааптар уонна сэргэ быраап ыстатыйаҕа туһаныллар, таарыллар да буоллаҕына бас билээччилэргэ бэйэлэригэр хаалар. Манна олору туттуу   лиссиэнсийэ эрэ ирдэбилин иһинэн туһанартан атыны көҥүллээбэт. Өскөтө атын ыйыллыбатах буоллаҕына, Бикипиэдьийэ уонна Викимиэдьийэ Пуондатын ситим-сирдэрэ бас билээччилэри кытта туох да ситимнэрэ суох, онон Бикипиэдьийэ ааптар быраабынан көмүскэнэр матырыйааллары дьаһайар кыаҕа суох.  
 Болҕой, Бикипиэдьийэҕэ баары тарҕатыы уонна уларытыы эн ситим-сири көрө олорор дойдуҥ сокуонун кэһиэн сөп. Бикипиэдьийэ сокуону кэһэргэ ыҥырбат, ол эрээри, ситим-сир  -ка баар сиэрбэргэ харалла сытарынан, биһиги АХШ Сүрүн сокуонун Бастакы көннөрүүтэ уонна ХНТ Киһи быраабын биирдэһиллибит декларацията биэрбит бырааптарынан туһанабыт. Эн дойдуҥ сокуоннара тыл көҥүлүн көмүскүүрү АХШ сокуонуттан уонна ХНТ Хартиятыттан кыараҕастык көрүөхтэрин сөп, оннук түгэҥҥэ Бикипиэдьийэ ол сокуоннары Эн кэспиккэр эппиэтинэһи сүкпэт. 
 , тоҕо диэтэххэ дьон бэйэлэрин баҕатынан түмсэн үөрэтэр, култуураны сайыннарар, билиини тарҕатар соруктаах тэрийбит бөлөхтөрө буолар.   уонна билиини туһанарга биитэр уларытарга,   лиссиэнсиэҕэ суруллубатах  . Ону таһынан Бикипиэдьийэҕэ уонна кинини кытта ситимнээх бырайыактарга Эн укпутуҥ эбэтэр соппутуҥ туһуттан ким да эппиэтинэһи сүкпэт. 
 Бу сирэйи аахпыккар махталбытын тиэрдэбит. Бикипиэдьийэттэн үтүөнү эрэ буларгар баҕарабыт.


URL: https://cdo.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:M%C3%B2%CC%A4_h%C3%B4-c%C3%A1ik_s%C4%ADng-m%C3%ACng

Content: /* Mò̤ bō̤-céng cĭng-sĭk-séng */ About Aol specific gameing language governing
 Nē̤ng-gă â̤ gēng-sōng siŏh piĕ gŏ̤ cék-liông gì ùng-ciŏng, bêng-chiā â̤ huă-huă-nióh kĕk   gâe̤ng   lì gáng-sê dék sĭng gì biéng-huá. Dáng-sê,  


URL: https://mzn.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%BE%D8%B1%D9%88%DA%98%D9%87:%D8%AA%DA%A9%D8%B0%DB%8C%D8%A8%E2%80%8C%D9%86%D9%88%D9%85%D9%87%D9%94_%D9%87%D9%85%D9%87%E2%80%8C%DA%AF%D9%88%D9%86%DB%8C

Content: ویکی‌پدیا، اتا دانشنامه با محتویات آزاد و حاصل کار داوطلبونهٔ ونه کارورون هسته. اینتا پروژه‌ی هدف بساتن منبعی آزاد دانش بشری وسّه هسته. ونه ساختار به گونه‌ای هسته که هرکسی که دسترسی به اینترنت داشت‌بائه بتونده ونه بنویشته‌ئون ره تغییر هاده. پس این ره بدونین که اینجه‌ی بنویشته‌ئون ره هیچ کسی بازرسی نکانده و همینسه ونه بنویشته‌ئون بتونده غلط بوئه.
 گرچه اینتا سایت دله چیزون خله خاری هم پیدا بونه ولی اِما وشون ره تضمین نکامبی و این بنویشته‌ئون گرچه ونه منبع‌دار و معتبر بائن، ولی تضمین‌بَیی نینه. شِما هم هرچی که ونه دله دره ره بتوندی کار بزنی.


URL: https://mn.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:%D0%95%D1%80%D3%A9%D0%BD%D1%85%D0%B8%D0%B9_%D1%82%D0%B0%D1%82%D0%B3%D0%B0%D0%BB%D0%B7%D0%B0%D0%BB

Content:  нь чөлөөт   юм. „Чөлөөт“ гэдэг нь википедиа дахь өгүүллэгийн агуулга нь лизенцгүй буюу зөвшөөрөлтэйгөөр нийтэд нийтийн сүлжээнд ашиглаж болох агуулга гэсэн утгатай юм.
 Википедиа нь хүний мэдлэгийн санг нэгтгэж, арвижуулахын төлөө, сайн дурын үндсэн дээр нэгдэж хамтран бичдэг, интернэт дэх нэвтэрхий толь юм. Интернэт холболттой хүн бүр энэ төслийн агуулгыг өөрчилж болно. Иймээс энд буй мэдээллийг мэргэжилтнүүд хянаж, үнэн зөв гэдгийг батлаагүй бөгөөд зарим мэдээлэл нь найдвартай бус байж болно.
 Хэдийгээр Википедиа дахь дийлэнхи мэдээлэл үнэ цэнтэй, үнэн зөв байдаг ч гэлээ, Википедиа нь энд буй мэдээлэл үнэн зөв гэсэн баталгааг гаргахгүй. 
 Аливаа хувь нэмэр оруулагчид, спонсорууд, администраторууд, болон бусад Википедиатай холбоотой хүмүүс, Википедиад худал эсвэл гүтгэсэн мэдээлэл гарсан, эсвэл энд байгаа мэдээлэл ба эндээс линк хийгдсэн мэдээллийг ашигласантай холбоотой гарсан ямарваа зүйлд хариуцлага хүлээхгүй.
 Тодорхой мэргэжлийн зөвлөгөө (жишээ нь эмнэлгийн, хуулийн, санхүүгийн, эрсдлийн удирдлага г.м.) авахыг хүсвэл, тухайн чиглэлийн  мэргэжилтэнд хандана уу.


URL: https://mt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedija:%C4%8Aa%C4%A7da_%C4%A1enerali

Content: 
 Il-Wikipedija hija enċiklopedija kollaborativa b'kontenut ħieles, li tfisser, assoċjazzjoni volontarja ta' individwi u gruppijiet li jaħdmu flimkien sabiex jibnu proġett ta' għerf komuni. L-istruttura tal-proġett tippermetti li kwalunkwe persuna li għandu aċċess għall-internet sabiex ikun jista' jagħmel modifiki fil-kontenut. Jekk jogħġbok għaraf il-fatt li l-kontenut li jinstab hawnhekk kien neċessarjament revedut minn persuna esperta sabiex jingħata informazzjoni kompleta, preċiża u li tista' torbot fuqu.
 Dan ma jfissirx però li mintix se ssib informazzjoni preċiża u ta' valur kbir fil-Wikipedija; ħafna drabi għandek issib. Minkejja dan,   Il-kontenut ta' artiklu jista' jiġi riċentament ġie modifikat, vandalizzat jew modifikat minn persuna li huwa ta' opinjoni differenti f'dak il-qasam.
 Qegħdin naħdmu fuq mezzi sabiex nagħżlu u nimmarkaw verżjonijiet li wieħed jista' jorbot fuqhom. Il-komunità attiva ta' edituri jagħmlu użu minn għodda bħat-  u tal-  sabiex ikunu jistgħu jaraw kontenut ġdid jew modifiki li qegħdin isiru. Madankollu, il-Wikipedija ma tiġix reveduta bl-istess mod jiġifieri, waqt li qarrejja jistgħu jikkoreġu żbalji jew jieħdu sehem f' , huma m'għandhom l-ebda rabta legali u għalhekk kull informazzjoni li jinqara hawnhekk huwa implikat bla pleġġ għal kull raġuni. Anke artikli li jiġu kkorreġuti minn reviżjoni informali mill-komunità jew dawk li jkunu   jistgħu aktar tard jiġu modifikati bla rażan, qabel ma tarahom.  
 
 Kun żgur li tifhem li l-informazzjoni pprovduta hawnhekk qiegħda tiġi provduta b'xejn, u li l-ebda tip ta' qbil jew kuntratt jinħoloq bejnek u bejn is-sidien jew l-utenti ta' dan is-sit, is-sidien tas-servers fejn din tinsab, il-kontributuri individwali tal-Wikipedija, l-amministraturi ta' kwalunkwe proġett, jew xi ħadd ieħor li b'xi mod jew ieħor   ma' dan il-proġett jew proġetti relatati li huma suġġetti għad-domandi tiegħek lejhom. Inti qiegħed tingħata liċenzja limitata li tikkopja li trid minn fuq dan is-sit; min-naħa tal-Wikipedija din ma toħloqx jew timplika ebda responsabbilità kuntrattwali jew ekstra-kuntrattwali jew kwalunkwe mill-aġenti tagħha, il-membri, l-organizzaturi jew utenti oħra.
 Inti qiegħed tingħata liċensja limitata sabiex tikkopja xi affarijiet minn dan is-sit; minn naħa tal-wikipedija ma toħloqx l-ebda dejn jew qbil formali jew kwalunkwe tal-aġenti tagħha, membri, organiżaturi jew utenti oħrajn. 
 M'hemm   rigward l-użu jew modifikar ta' din l-informazzjoni li huwa 'l fuq mill-iskop tal-  (GFDL); lanqas xi ħadd mill-Wikipedija m'huwa responsabbli jekk xi ħadd ibiddel, jimmodifika jew ineħħi xi informazzjoni li int tissottometti fuq il-Wikipedija jew proġett assoċjat.  
 Kwalunkwe trejdmarks, marki tas-servizzi, marki kollettivi, drittijiet tad-disinn jew drittijiet simili li huma msemmija, użati jew kwotati fl-artikli tal-enċiklopedija tal-Wikipedija huma propjetà tas-sidien rispettivi. L-użu tagħhom hawnhekk ma timplikax li inti tista' tużahom għal xi raġunijiet oħra minbarra dak ta' l-istess użu ta' informazzjoni jew wieħed simili kif kontemplat mill-awturi oriġinali tal-artikli tal-Wikipedija taħt l-iskema ta' liċenzjar tal-GFDL. Sakemm mhux iddikjarat b'mod ieħor, il-Wikipedija u s-siti tal-Wikimedia m'huma la approvaturi u lanqas affiljati mal-ebda mis-sidiein tat-tali drittijiet u persè l-Wikipedija ma tistax tagħti drittijiet biex tuża' materjal li huwa protett. Huwa riskju tiegħek jekk tuża din il-proprjetà inkorporali jew waħda simili.
 Il-Wikipedija għandha materjal li jista' juri persuna identifikament ħajja jew persuna li mietet riċentament. L-użu ta' stampi ta' individwi ħajjin jew li għadhom kif imutu riċentament, f'ċerti kazijiet, huwa ristretti bil-liġi minħabba d-  tagħhom, li huma independenti mill-istatus tagħhom ta' copyright. Qabel ma tuża' dan it-tip ta' kontenut, aċċerta ruħek li għandek id-dritt li tużah taħt il-liġijiet li japplikaw fiċ-ċirkustanzi involuti.  
 Pubblikazzjoni ta' informazzjoni li tinsab fil-Wikipedija tista' tkun qed tivvjola l-liġijiet tal-pajjiż jew ġurisdizzjoni minn fejn qiegħda tintwera din l-informazzjoni. Id-databażi tal-Wikipedija hija maqfula f'server fl-Istat ta'   fl- , u hija mantenuta b'referenza għall-protezzjonijiet tal-mezzi pprovduti taħt il-liġijiet legali u federali. Il-liġijiet fil-pajjiż jew il-ġurisdizzjoni tiegħek jistgħu lanqas jipproteġuk jew jħalluk l-istess tip ta' taħdit u distribuzzjoni. Il-Wikipedija ma tagħtix parir li tikser xi liġijiet, u ma tistax tkun responsabbli minn dawn l-atti, jekk inti se tabbina ma' dan id-dominju jew tuża, tirriproduċi, jew terġa' tippubblika l-informazzjoni li hawn hawnhekk. 
 Jekk trid parir speċifiku (eżempju, dak mediku, legali, finanzjarju, jew l-immaniġjar tar-riskji) fittex nies professjonali li huma liċenzjati jew għandhom il-ħila f'dak il-qasam partikulari.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Medical_disclaimer

Content: Wikipedia contains articles on many  ; however,   is made that any of the articles are accurate. There is absolutely no assurance that any statement contained or cited in an article touching on medical matters is true, correct, precise, or up-to-date. The overwhelming majority of such articles are written, in part or in whole, by non-professionals. Even if a statement made about medicine is accurate, it may not apply to you or your symptoms.
 The medical information provided on Wikipedia is, at best, of a general nature and   (for instance, a qualified doctor/physician, nurse, pharmacist/chemist, and so on).  
 None of the individual contributors, system operators, developers, sponsors of Wikipedia, nor anyone else connected to Wikipedia can take any responsibility for the results or consequences of any attempt to use or adopt any of the information presented on this web site.
 


URL: https://sm.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://mr.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AA%E0%A5%80%E0%A4%A1%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%BE:%E0%A4%B8%E0%A4%B0%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%B8%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%A7%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%A3_%E0%A4%89%E0%A4%A4%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%A4%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%A6%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%A4%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%B8_%E0%A4%A8%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%B0

Content: 
  –   –   –   –  
 आपण मराठी     संकेतस्थळाच्या   नावाच्या सर्वसाधारण विभागात पोहोचला आहात. मराठी विकिपीडियातील कोणताही लेख किंवा पान   किंवा महाराष्ट्राबाहेरील कोणत्याही व्यक्तीचे/संस्थेचे प्रत्यक्ष किंवा अप्रत्यक्ष प्रतिनिधित्व करत नाही. कोणत्याही संस्थेची वा व्यक्तीची समस्या, तक्रार, किंवा शंका निवारण करणारे केंद्र/पान या संकेतस्थळावर -(वेब साइटवर)- उपलब्ध नाही .धन्यवाद!
 
 विकिपीडिया हा आंतरजालावरील (ऑनलाइन) मुक्तपणे मजकूर लिहिणार्‍या सहयोगी लोकांचा   (ज्ञानकोश/एनसायक्लोपीडिया) आहे.  म्हणजे  थोडक्यात, विकिपीडिया हे मानवी ज्ञानाच्या सामाईक स्रोतांवर  काम करणार्‍या स्वयंसेवी व्यक्तींचे व स्वयंसेवी गटांचे एक स्वयंस्फूर्त संघटन आहे. संगणक वापरणार्‍या व आंतरजाल जोडणी    उपलब्ध असलेल्या कुणालाही मजकुरात भर टाकता येईल किंवा त्यात बदल करता येतील अशी या प्रकल्पाची रचना आहे.  येथे लिहिलेल्या कोणत्याही गोष्टीची/माहितीची परिपूर्णता, तिचा अचूकपणा किंवा तिची विश्वासार्हता यांची संबधित विषयांतील तज्‍ज्ञ व्यक्तीकडून पडताळणी झाली असल्याची/माहितीचे समसमी़क्षण   झाले असल्याची  , हे कृपया लक्षात घ्यावे.
 याचा अर्थ असा नव्हे की, विकिपीडियात महत्त्वाची व अचूक माहिती असणारच नाही. उलट, येथे असलेली बहुतेक माहिती आपल्याला महत्त्वाची व अचूक अशीच आढळेल.
 तरीपण,   कोणत्याही लेखातील कोणताही मजकूर  खर्‍याखुर्‍या जाणकार व्यक्तीच्या मतांशी न जुळणार्‍या किंवा संबंधित क्षेत्रातील ज्ञानाच्या अद्ययावत स्थितीबद्दल  काहीच माहिती नसलेल्या व्यक्तीकडून पूर्ण अथवा अंशतः  बदललेला किंवा विध्वंसित/उत्पातित झालेला असू शकतो. येथे हे लक्षात घ्या की, इतरही बहुतेक सर्व विश्वकोशांमध्ये (एनसायक्लोपीडियाज) आणि संदर्भ ग्रंथांमध्येसुद्धा    अंतर्भूत असतात.
 आम्ही लेखांची विश्वासार्ह आवृत्ती निवडल्यानंतर तिला अपरिवर्तनीय करण्याच्या विषयात मार्ग शोधण्याच्या प्रयत्‍नात आहोत. आमचा सक्रिय संपादक समुदाय नवीन आणि बदलत्या मजकुरावर लक्ष ठेवण्यासाठी  ,   रसद   इत्यादी पूरक साधने वापरत असतो.  तरीसुद्धा, विकिपीडिया सार्वत्रिकपणे समसमिक्षीत/पडताळून झालेला नसतो; वाचक त्रुटी दूर करू शकतात किंवा  वरवरचे     करू शकतात, पण त्यांच्यावर तसे करण्याची कोणतीही अधिकृत किंवा कायद्याने बंधनकारक जबाबदारी नाही. आणि म्हणून, येथे वाचलेल्या कोणत्याही माहितीमध्ये, कोणत्याही परिस्थितीत, कोणत्याही उपयोगाकरिता किंवा कोणत्याही उद्देशाकरिता पात्रतेची हमी अंतर्भूत करता येत नाही.  अणि अगदी   सारखे (अनौपचारीक) विषयतज्ञांद्वारा मूल्यांकन  झालेले व मान्यता दिलेले लेखही    नंतरच्या काळात,  तुम्ही पहाण्याच्या अगदी अगोदर, (अगदी अपात्र व्यक्तींकडूनही), अयोग्य पद्धतीने संपादित केले गेलेले असू शकतात.
 
 येथे उपलब्ध केलेली/झालेली माहिती   स्वरूपात उपलब्ध केली जाते, हे आपणास समजले असल्याची कृपा करून खात्री करून घ्या. तुम्ही आणि या संस्थळाचे (site) मालक अथवा या संकेतस्थळाचे उपयोगकर्ते यांचा आपापसात कोणताही करार अथवा समझोता उद्भवत नाही. हे संस्थळ स्थापित असलेल्या विदादात्यांचे मालक (owners of the servers), व्यक्तिगत विकिपीडिया योगदानकर्ते,  प्रकल्प-प्रचालक(प्रबंधक), प्रचालक किंवा   या प्रकल्पाशी किंवा त्याच्या सहप्रकल्पांशी   इतर जण, यांतला कोणीही त्यांच्या विरोधातील तुमच्या कोणत्याही दाव्यास प्रत्यक्ष जबाबदार (जिम्मेवार) असणार नाही.
 तुम्हाला या संकेतस्थळावरून काहीही नकलवण्याचा  परवाना केवळ   आहे; त्यामुळे, विकिपीडियाबरोबर अथवा त्याच्या कोणत्याही प्रतिनिधी, सदस्य, संयोजक किंवा इतर सदस्याबरोबर कोणताही प्रत्यक्ष किंवा अप्रत्यक्ष करार करणे किंवा त्यांच्याकडून करारांतर्गत अथवा करारेतर  कायदेशीर दायित्व (जबाबदारी) घेणे संभवत नाही. दायित्व (जबाबदारी) निर्मिती करेल असा कोणताही करार कोणत्याही प्रकारे स्वीकारार्ह असणार नाही.  
 
 
तुमच्या या संकेतस्थळाच्या अथवा सहप्रकल्पांच्या उपयोगाच्या, किंवा माहितीतील बदलांच्या संदर्भाने   (CC-BY-SA) आणि the   (GFDL)च्या परिघापलीकडे  "तुमच्यात आणि विकिपीडियात कोणताही समझोता अथवा करार नाही";  प्रकल्पावर तुम्ही चढवलेली कोणतीही माहिती/मजकूर दुसर्‍या कुणीही पूर्णपणे अथवा अंशतः संपादित करून तिच्यात बदल केल्यास, अगर काही किंवा संपूर्ण माहिती वगळल्यास; विकिपीडिया किंवा संबंधित दुसरे कुणीही त्याला जबाबदार असणार नाहीत.
 विकिपीडिया विश्वकोश (एनसायक्लोपीडिया)च्या पानातून /लेखातून नमूद केलेली, वापरलेली (used) किंवा संदर्भ दिलेली कोणतीही व्यापार चिन्हे, सेवा चिन्हे (service marks), collective marks, design rights हे, त्यांच्या संबंधित मालकांची संपत्ती आहेत. त्यांचा (इतरांच्या संपत्तीचा), या विकिपीडियातील लेखातील मूळ लेखकास असलेल्या CC-BY-SA आणि GFDL ने अभिप्रेत अशा परवान्याअतंर्गत, समान माहितीच्या पलीकडे तुम्ही उपयोग करू शकता, असा त्याचा अर्थ होत नाही (म्हणजे उपयोग करू शकत नाही).
 तसे स्पष्ट अधिकृतपणे नमूद नसल्यास, विकिपीडिया आणि Wikimedia सारखी संकेतस्थळे  अशा कोणत्याही मालकी हक्कदारांनी दुजोरा दिलेली   endorsed अथवा त्यांच्याशी जोडली गेलेली affiliated नाहीत, असेच अपेक्षित आहे. आणि अर्थातच त्यामुळे, विकिपीडिया अन्यथा otherwise  सुरक्षित अशी साधनसामग्री materials वापरण्यास कोणतीही परवानगी देऊ शकत नाही/देत नाही.  अथवा अशा प्रकारच्या कोणत्याही अमूर्त सामग्रीचा incorporeal property   केलेला कोणताही उपयोग सर्वस्वी तुमच्या स्वतःच्या जबाबदारीवर असेल.
 जीवित अथवा अलीकडेच मृत झालेल्या, आणि नावावरून सहज ओळख पटेल अशा व्यक्तींची माहिती विकिपीडियात प्रकाशित झालेली असू शकते. अशा व्यक्तीचे चित्र किंवा छायाचित्र त्या व्यक्तीच्या किंवा तिच्या वारसाच्या/परिवारातल्या व्यक्तीच्या नकळत किंवा तिच्या/त्यांच्या परवानगीशिवाय वापरणे रूढ संकेताचा भंग करणारे असू शकते. काही देशातील काही कायद्यांनुसार, जीवित अथवा हल्लीहल्ली मृत झालेल्या व्यक्तीच्या चित्रांचा/छायाचित्रांचा   क्षेत्रात मोडणारा वापर प्रतिबंधित केलेला असू शकतो;  हे प्रतिबंधन प्रताधिकारांशिवायचे असण्याची शक्यता आहे. त्यामुळे,    इतरांच्या व्यक्तिस्वातंत्र्याचा संकोच न करण्याची जबाबदारी केवळ तुमची स्वतःची आहे.
 विकिपीडिया contains मजकुर which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or deceased recently.  The use of images of living or recently deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, कृपया ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.   
 ज्या देशातून तुम्ही माहिती पहात आहात त्या देशातील कायद्यानुसार, विकिपीडियात प्रकाशित झालेली एखादी माहिती पाहणे बेकायदेशीर किंवा तिथल्या प्रचलित नियमांचे उल्लंघन करणारे असण्याची शक्यता आहे.  विकिपीडियातील विदा (database)   अमेरिकेमधील   राज्य येथील विदादाता (server) वर संग्रहित केला जातो.  आणि तेथील स्थानिक आणि संघीय कायद्यातील सुरक्षा तरतुदींनुसार सुचालित (maintaine) केली जाते . तुमच्या देशातील कायदे  अशा पद्धतीच्या बोलण्यास, लिहिण्यास वा  मांडणी वितरणास मान्यता अथवा संरक्षण देत असेलच असे नाही. विकिपीडिया कोणत्याही कायद्याच्या उल्लंघनास उत्तेजन देत नाही; आणि म्हणून जर तुम्ही या संकेतस्थळाचा (domain)  दुवा दिलात, येथील उपलब्ध माहिती वापरली , पुनःप्रसारित किंवा पुनःप्रकाशित केली, आणि असे करताना नियमभंग झाला, तर अशा कोणत्याही रीतीने कायद्याच्या किंवा नियमाच्या उल्लंघनास विकिपीडिया किंवा विकिमिडिया जबाबदार नाही..
 जर तुम्हाला वैद्यकीय, कायदा, आर्थिक किंवा जोखीम व्यवस्थापन किंवा अशाच एखाद्या विशिष्ट क्षेत्रातील सल्ल्याची गरज असेल तर असा सल्ला आपण कृपया, परवानाधारक किंवा त्या क्षेत्रातील ज्ञानवंत असेल अशा व्यक्तीकडूनच मिळवावा. विकिपीडिया ही संस्था, असा व्यावसायिक सल्ला देत नाही.
 हे disclaimer इंग्रजी विकिपीडियावरून भाषांतरित केले आहे. जिथे शंका असेल तिथे, मूळ इंग्रजी विकिपीडियातील इंग्रजी उतारा तपासून घ्यावा. या लेखातील तसेच मराठी विकिपीडिया किंवा तिच्या मराठी भाषेतील सहप्रकल्पातील भाषांतराच्या अचूकतेची कोणतीही जबाबदारी मराठी विकिपीडिया किंवा इथे कार्यरत संपादक घेत नाहीत. कायदेशीर वा कोर्ट कार्यवाहीसाठी, वा भाषांतराचा वाद उद्भवल्यास, इंगजी विकिपीडियावरचे disclaimer हे ग्राह्य धरण्यात यावे.   
 खाली केवळ या लेखाच्या संदर्भात लागू पडणार्‍या उपयुक्त तांत्रिक शब्दांचे सामान्य अर्थ दिले आहेत. या लेखास कायदा विषयातील जाणकार व्यक्तीच्या साहाय्याची आवश्यकता आहे. 


URL: https://nds-nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:V%C3%B6%C3%A4rbehold

Content: Disse webstee wörden an-ebeujen deur de   (Wikimedia-stichting), in-eschreven bie   onder t nummer N03000005323. De Wikimedia Foundation is n stichting naor t recht van de Amerikaanse staot  . De bedenker van Wikipedie is  .
 Disse   wörden uuteindelik eschreven deur t publiek. Allewel zwat iederene die meedöt probeert um naor sekuur informatieve artikels te schrieven, kan der, wat dat de inhoud dervan angeet, gien garansie egeven wörden. Iederene die zien eigen kennelik as deskundig ziet, mag wiezigingen in de tekste anbrengen. Wel zal n dudelike fout in t algemeen aordig gauw opvallen en deur de aandere deelnemers verbeterd wörden. Zo as de ervaoring van de deelnemers leert, is der de neiging dat artikels alsmar langerder en nauwkeuriger wörden; aof en toe zal n terogval kunnen véúrkoemen.
 t Is dan oek verstaandig um naost disse ensyklopedie oek aandere naoslagwarken of spesialistiese boeken te raodplegen.
 A'j n   zien, ma'j t voort verbeteren, of - a'j niet zovere gaon willen - n opmarking hierover maken op de   die bie elke pagina heurt. We willen joe oek grege anbussen um dit te doon.
 De vriewilligers die disse ensyklopedie schrieven (en dat is t publiek, dus oek jiezelf) bin niet ansprakelik veur de juustheid van de egeven informasie. Ze kunnen zelfs niet garanderen dat de auteurs zörgvuldig te wark egaon bin bie t formuleren van de artikels. Gebruuk van de informasie is geheel vrie, mer wel op eigen risiko.
 Der bin gebrukers ( ) die extra meugelikheen op technies nivo hebben op disse webstee. Zo as t vortdoon van pagina's, beveiligen van pagina's en t ontnemen van schriefrechten an gebrukers. Dit bin meugelikheen die gewone gebrukers niet hebben. Disse groep vriewilligers bin niet de webmeisters mer eerder de huusbewaorders van Wikipedie. t Is n uutvoerende funksie. t Dagelikse bestuur de nds-nl-wiki geet feitelik uut van de gemeenschap van de nds-nl-wiki. 
 Op juridies nivo is de   de eindverantwoordelike. 
 As der volgens joe n probleem is, neem dan eerst kontakt op mit beheerders van de nds-nl-wiki. A'j n klachte sturen willen dan kan dat in t Engels, naor:
 Alle teksten op Wikipedie vallen onder de  -lisensie. A'j n stuk zien dat argens aanders van overeneumen is, zonder dat der toestemming van de auteursrechtbezitters egeven is, meld t dan of wiezig de tekste zelf.


URL: https://sa.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AA%E0%A5%80%E0%A4%A1%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%BE:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://mwl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biquip%C3%A9dia:Abiso_legal

Content: 
 La   — coincida anternacionalmente cumo   — ye ua anciclopédia   de cuntenido abierto, esto ye, ua associaçon d'andebíduos que beluntariamente se dedícan a la criaçon dun grande repositório de todo l coincimiento houmano. Sue strutura premite que qualquiera andebíduo cun ua lhigaçon a la Anterneta i un nabegador   puoda altarar l cuntenido eiqui ancuntrado. Antoce, l outelizador debe tener an atençon que nada garante que l cuntenudo eiqui çponeblizado tenga sido rebisto por porfissionales debidamente credenciados nas árias de coincimiento an queston, de modo a poder dar anformaçones cumpletas, percisas i credibles subre qualquiera assunto eiqui abordado.
 Esto nun quier dezir que la Biquipédia nun cuntenha muitas anformaçones percisas i baliosas. Esto quier dezir solo que la   Eilhas puoden tener sido altaradas ó bandalizadas por alguien cun ua oupenion que nun corresponda al "stado de l coincimiento" na ária particular que l'outelizador stá antressado an coincer. La Wikipédia stá a trabalhar an nuobas formas de selecionar i aprobar bersones fiables de ls artigos mas, mesmo assi, sin dar garanties.
 Nanhun de ls outores, cuntribuidores, patrocinadores, admenistradores (de l cuntenido ó de l sistema), nin naide lhigado d'algua maneira a la Wikipédia puode ser respunsablizado por qualesquiera anformaçones amprecisas ó difamatórias eiqui cuntenidas, nin pul uso que se puoda fazer de tales anformaçones.
 Todas las marcas registradas ó parecidas, ambolbendo dreitos d'outor, que séian mencionadas, outelizadas ó citadas ne ls artigos de la Biquipédia son propiadades de sous respetibos duonhos. Sou uso neste sítio nun outoriza naide a outelizá-las lhibremente cun outros perpósitos para alhá de l'oubjetibo anformatibo de l'outor oureginal desses artigos. Salbo quando specificado an cuntrairo, ls sítios de la Wikimedia Foundation, antre ls quales stá la Biquipédia, nun son andossados nin afeliados a nanhun de ls propiatairos destes dreitos i, cumo tal, la Biquipédia nun puode cunceder dreitos d'uso subre nanhun material que tenga l sou uso restrito por dreitos outorales ó parecidos.
 Las anformaçones na Wikipédia puoden biolar la lhegislaçon aplicable an detreminados países ó jurisdiçones. La Biquipédia nun ancita la biolaçon de nanhue lhei, mas cumo las anformaçones stan guardadas an serbidores ne ls Stados Ounidos de la América i an alguns países de la Ouropa, eilhas son regidas pulas proteçones garantidas als cidadanos desses países. Inda assi, nin todos ls países de l mundo dan ua proteçon a la lhibardade de spresson tan ampla cumo ls Stados Ounidos ó la Ounion Ouropeia, pul que la Wikipédia nun puode ser, de nanhun modo, respunsablizada por ua eibentual biolaçon dessas lheis, pul uso que un outelizador dun desses países puoda fazer de las anformaçones na Biquipédia.
 L'outelizador que percisar d'acunselhamiento specífico (por eisemplo: médico, lhegal, financeiro, etc.) ye bibamente acunselhado a percurar un porfissional de la ária.
 La Biquipédia nun ye rebista de forma custante i ouniforme. Anque de ls lheitores puodan corregir erros ó remober anformaçones ancorretas, eilhes nun ténen nanhue oubrigaçon lhegal de fazé-lo, pul que nanhue anformaçon ancuntrada eiqui ten qualquiera garantie de serbir a qualquiera uso ó perpósito specífico.
 Las anformaçones de la Wikipédia son çponiblizadas de grácia, nun habendo nanhun acuordo ó cuntrato antre l'outelizador i la Biquipédia cun respeito al uso ó modeficaçon dessas anformaçones para alhá de la   (CC-BY-SA) i de la  . La Biquipédia nun puode ser respunsablizada se alguien eiditar, demudar ó apagar qualquiera anformaçon que qualquiera outelizador tenga antroduzido na Biquipédia ó an qualquiera un de ls porjetos relacionados.


URL: https://cdo.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:M%C3%B2%CC%A4_h%C3%B4-c%C3%A1ik_s%C4%ADng-m%C3%ACng

Content: /* Mò̤ bō̤-céng cĭng-sĭk-séng */ About Aol specific gameing language governing
 Nē̤ng-gă â̤ gēng-sōng siŏh piĕ gŏ̤ cék-liông gì ùng-ciŏng, bêng-chiā â̤ huă-huă-nióh kĕk   gâe̤ng   lì gáng-sê dék sĭng gì biéng-huá. Dáng-sê,  


URL: https://sc.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Abbertimentos_generales

Content: 

URL: https://ms.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Penafian_umum

Content: Wikipedia merupakan ensiklopedia bebas dan terbuka. Ia ialah hasil usaha gabungan penglibatan individu dan kumpulan sukarelawan yang berusaha untuk membangunkan sumber pengetahuan rujukan orang ramai. Struktur projek ini membolehkan sesiapa sahaja yang mempunyai sambungan Internet untuk mengubah kandungannya. Dengan ini, dimaklumkan bahawa sebarang maklumat dipaparkan dalam Wikipedia tidak semestinya telah dinilaikan kesahihannya oleh golongan profesional dalam sebarang bidang yang berkaitan untuk ketepatan dan kesahan maklumat. 
 Hal ini tidaklah bermakna anda tidak akan menemui sebarang maklumat tepat di Wikipedia kerana kebanyakan daripada kandungan kami dikemaskinikan dari semasa ke semasa. Namun begitu,  . Kandungan sesuatu rencana mungkin telah disunting, dirosakkan atau ditukar oleh seseorang yang mungkin berpendapat lain dalam bidang berkenaan. Untuk maklumat anda, kebanyakan daripada ensiklopedia dan bahan rujukan lain juga mempunyai penafian seperti di atas.      
 Kami sentiasa berusaha untuk memilih dan memastikan versi rencana yang dipaparkan ialah yang terbaik. Kommuniti penyunting aktif kami menggunakan peralatan seperti   dan   untuk memantau sebarang perubahan dan kandungan baharu. Namun begitu, kandungan Wikipedia tidak dinilai secara menyeluruh; walaupun pembaca mungkin membetulkan sebarang kesilapan, mereka tidak mempunyai sebarang kewajipan dari segi undang-undang untuk bertindak sedemikian. Oleh itu, kesemua informasi yang dibaca di sini adalah tanpa sebarang jaminan untuk apa-apa tujuan dan sebagainya. Kanduangan rencana yang telah dikategorikan sebagai telah dinilai atau dipilih sebagai   juga mungkin telah ditukar atau disunting sebelum anda membacanya.            
 
 Sila pastikan anda memahami bahawa maklumat di sini disediakan secara percuma, bebas dan tanpa sebarang ikatan, perjanjian atau persetujuan antara anda dengan pemilik tapak web ini dan pengguna-penggunanya, pemilik-pemilik pelayan di mana ia disimpan, para penyumbang individu Wikipedia, pentadbir projek,   atau sesiapa sahaja yang berkaitan dengan   dan projek-projek berkembarnya untuk menerima sebarang tuntutan daripada anda secara langsung. Anda hanya diizinkan lesen terhad untuk membuat salinan sebarang bahan daripada tapak web ini; kebenaran ini tidak menjadikannya atau bermaksud kontrak mahupun kontrak penambahan liabiliti kepada pihak   atau sebarang ejen-ejennya, ahli-ahlinya, pengurusannya dan pengguna-pengguna lainnya.
  untuk sebarang penggunaan atau perubahan informasi tertakluk dalam   (CC-BY-SA) dan   (GFDL); mahupun sesiapa yang berkaitan dengan Wikipedia bertanggungjawab untuk mengubah, menyunting atau memadamkan sebarang informasi yang anda mungkin tulis atau paparkan dalam Wikipedia atau projek-projek berkaitan dengannya.
 Mana-mana tanda dagangan, tanda perkhidmatan, tanda kolektif, hak reka bentuk atau hak-hak yang disertakan dan dinyatakan dalam artikel ensiklopedia   merupakan hak milik pemilik masing-masing. Penggunaan bahan tersebut di sini tidak bermakna anda boleh menggunakannya untuk kegunaan lain atau untuk penyebaran informasi seperti yang dinyatakan oleh penulis artikel Wikipedia tersebut di bawah skema perlesenan CC-BY-SA dan GFDL. Melainkan jika dinyatakan, Wikipedia dan laman-laman Wikimedia tidak berkaitan atau disahkan berhubung kait dengan mana-mana pemegang hak tersebut. Wikipedia tidak mampu memberi sebarang hak penggunaan mana-mana bahan yang dilindungi. Penggunaan bahan tersebut adalah di bawah tanggungan dan risiko anda.
 Wikipedia mungkin mengandungi bahan yang menggambarkan seseorang yang masih hidup atau meninggal dunia. Penggunaan imej-imej ini, dalam bidang kuasa tertentu, dihalang oleh undang-undang hak personaliti yang bebas daripada hak cipta bahan tersebut. Sebelum menggunakan bahan jenis ini, sila pastikan anda mempunyai hak untuk menggunakannya dalam bidang kuasa undang-undang. Anda bertanggungjawab untuk memastikan hak personaliti seseorang tidak dicabuli.
 Penerbitan informasi yang dijumpai dalam Wikipedia mungkin dianggap salah di sisi undang-undang di negara atau bidang kuass di mana anda membaca informasi ini. Pangkalan data Wikipedia disimpan dalam pelayan di Negeri Florida, Amerika Syarikat dan diselenggara mengikut peruntukan dalam undang-undang persekutuan dan tempatan Amerika Syarikat. Wikipedia tidak menggalakkan pelanggaran mana-mana undang-undang dan tidak bertanggungjawab untuk sebarang pelanggaran undang-undang yang berlaku seandainya anda menghubungkan domain ini atau menggunakan, mengeluarkan semula, atau menerbitkan maklumat yang terkandung di sini.
 Seandainya anda memerlukan sebarang nasihat (dalam bidang seperti perubatan, perundangan, kewangan atau sebagainya) sila dapatkan khidmat profesional yang berlesen atau mempunyai kepakaran dalam bidang tersebut.
 


URL: https://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%8F:%D0%9E%D1%82%D0%BA%D0%B0%D0%B7_%D0%BE%D1%82_%D0%BE%D1%82%D0%B2%D0%B5%D1%82%D1%81%D1%82%D0%B2%D0%B5%D0%BD%D0%BD%D0%BE%D1%81%D1%82%D0%B8

Content: 
 Википедия — совместно создаваемая онлайн-энциклопедия под свободной лицензией, то есть добровольное сообщество людей и групп, создающих общее хранилище человеческих знаний. Устройство Википедии позволяет любому, кто имеет доступ в Интернет, менять её содержимое. Поэтому, пожалуйста, примите во внимание, что приведённые здесь сведения не обязательно были проверены профессионалами, обладающими знаниями, необходимыми для предоставления вам полной, точной или заслуживающей доверия информации.
 Нельзя сказать, что в Википедии не так уж много полезной и точной информации — большая часть информации такова. Однако вы должны сознавать, что  . Содержимое любой статьи могло быть недавно изменено, испорчено или искажено кем-либо, чьё мнение не соответствует состоянию знаний в соответствующей области. 
 Наше активное сообщество редакторов использует такие инструменты как страницы « » и « » для отслеживания создания и изменения содержимого. Тем не менее, Википедия не имеет равномерного рецензирования. Хотя читатели могут исправлять ошибки или участвовать в нерегулярной  , у них нет обязанности это делать, и поэтому любая информация в Википедии не содержит каких-либо подразумеваемых гарантий пригодности для каких-либо целей или применений. Даже статьи, которые были подвергнуты неформальной экспертной оценке или  , могут быть отредактированы ненадлежащим образом непосредственно перед вашим посещением.
 
 Пожалуйста, убедитесь, что вы понимаете, что вся информация, находящаяся здесь, предоставлена бесплатно, как акт доброй воли, без заключения каких-либо договорённостей или договоров между вами и владельцами или пользователями данного сайта, владельцами серверов, на которых он размещён, отдельными редакторами Википедии, администраторами проекта, системными администраторами либо кем-то ещё,   с этим или родственными проектами, кто может стать предметом прямых претензий. Вам предоставляется ограниченное право копировать содержимое этого сайта — данное право не предусматривает и не подразумевает никакой договорной или иной ответственности за любую часть Википедии или её агентов, участников, организаторов или других пользователей.
 Не существует   относительно использования или изменений информации, за пределами лицензий   (CC BY-SA) и   (GFDL). Также никто в Википедии не несёт ответственности за изменение, редактирование, модификацию или удаление любой информации, которую вы можете опубликовать в Википедии или любом из связанных с ней проектов.
 Любые торговые марки, товарные и коллективные знаки, права на дизайн или аналогичные права, которые упоминаются, используются или цитируются в статьях, принадлежат их законным владельцам. Их использование здесь не даёт вам право на любое другое использование, кроме предусмотренного авторами статей Википедии в соответствии со схемой лицензирования CC BY-SA и GFDL. Если не указано иное, Википедия и сайты Фонда Викимедиа никак не связаны с правообладателями, и поэтому Википедия не может распоряжаться правами на использование материалов, защищённых авторским правом. Вы сами несёте ответственность за использование этих и подобных материалов.
 Википедия содержит материалы, которые могут изображать человека, которого можно по ним опознать, в том числе живущего или недавно умершего. Использование изображений живых или недавно умерших людей в некоторых юрисдикциях ограничено законами, касающимися прав личности, независимо от состояния их авторских прав. Прежде чем использовать эти типы материалов, убедитесь, что у вас есть право использовать их в соответствии с законами, которые применяются в обстоятельствах вашего предполагаемого использования.  
 Обратите внимание, что распространение информации, размещённой в Википедии, может являться нарушением законов той страны, в которой вы просматриваете этот сайт. База данных Википедии хранится на серверах, расположенных в  , и поддерживается в соответствии с мерами защиты, предусмотренными местным и федеральным законодательством этой страны. Законы вашей страны или юрисдикции могут не защищать или не допускать такие же виды высказывания или распространения. Википедия не поощряет нарушение каких-либо законов и не может нести ответственности за любые потенциальные нарушения этих законов вами при публикации ссылок на этот сайт или другом использовании, воспроизведении и публикации любой содержащейся здесь информации.
 Если вам нужен совет специалиста (например, в области медицины, права, финансов или управления рисками), пожалуйста, обратитесь к профессионалам за пределами Википедии, имеющим лицензию или сертификат и знания в данной области.


URL: https://xmf.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E1%83%95%E1%83%98%E1%83%99%E1%83%98%E1%83%9E%E1%83%94%E1%83%93%E1%83%98%E1%83%90:%E1%83%92%E1%83%90%E1%83%9B%E1%83%90%E1%83%9B%E1%83%98%E1%83%9C%E1%83%AF%E1%83%90%E1%83%9A%E1%83%90%E1%83%A8_%E1%83%95%E1%83%90%E1%83%A0%E1%83%90%E1%83%A4%E1%83%90

Content: ,  -  დუდიშული დინორეთ, რე მოხალისე  პიჯეფიშ დო ბუნეფიშ ჯარალუა, ნამუეფით ორსხუანა კოჩიშობაშ რჩქინაშ ოირკოჩე ოჩუაშეს. თიში სტრუქტურაშ მეჯინათ ვიკიპედიაშ რედაქტირაფა   დო   მაღვენჯი ნამგარდია პიჯის შეულებჷ. ათეშენ, რთხიინთ გეთოლწონათ, ნამდა მოჸონაფილი ინფორმაცია შილებე ვა რდას გჷნომორსაფილი პროფესიონალეფიშით.
 ვე შილებე თიში რაგადი, ნამდა ვიკიპედიას ვა რე აიწორი დო ოხვილური ინფორმაცია, მორო თქვა ოკო გეთოლწონათ, ნამდა    ვა რე გჷშაკოროცხილი, ნამდა თქვანო საინტერესო ინფორმაცია რდჷ თირელი, გჷლალუაფირი ვარა ჭარილი თი პიჯიშით, მიდგაშ სარზება იშხვანერებუ ზოგადო ეჭოფილი სარზებაშე. 
 ჩქი ირო ბგორჷნთ მაქსიმალურო ბონი დო გოთინილი სტატიეფიშ გჷნომორსაფაშ დო გჷშაგორუაშ შარეფს. ჩქინი უდიდაში მეჭირინდაფა რე  , მორო თინეფით ხოლო შელებუანიე გჷლალუეს-და მუსხირენ მერქაშ წოხოლე სოიშახ თქვა იკითხენდითჷნ.  
 რთხინთ გეთოლწონათ, ნამდა ინფორმაცია, ნამუსჷთ თაქ ძირჷნთჷნ, დორსხუაფილიე დუდიშულო, მუჭოთ ჯამიერი ზალამიშ გჷმორჩქინა. ინფორმაციაშ მიმაჭირინდაფალეფს დო ვიკიპედიაშ მინჯეეფს, ადმინისტრატორეფს, ოპერატორეფს ვარა   დო მაკითხირალეფს შქას ვა რე დოდვალირი მუთუნინერი აპიჯაფა. ათეშენ, ვიკიპედიაშ დინორე ვა გჷნირთუ იურიდიული პრეტენზიეფიშ ოკითხუთ. თქვა გიღუნა ვიკიპედიაშ ანგუაშ ალობა, მორო ვართ თენას იგურხონარებუ მუდგაინი იურიდიული გამამინჯალა  - თქვა ირინუანთ ინფორმაციას დორხველი ზალამით.
 ნამდგარდია ოვაჭარე შანი, მარკეფი, ორგანიზაციეფიშ, მეკონეფიშ ჯოხოეფი, დიზაინი დო ვიკიპედიას გჷმორინაფილი შხვა ვადუდიშული ინფორმაციაშენ ოავტორე ნებეფს ღვალენა თინეფიშ კანონიერი მინჯეეფი. ვიკიპედიაშ დინორე იფაჩუ   ლიცენზიათ, დო თქვა შეილებუნა თინეფიშ გჷმორინაფა ხვალე თე ლიცენზიაშ პიჯალეფიშ ალებათ. რშუდანი, ნამდა თქვა  
 რთხიინთ თაშნეშე გეთოლწონათ, ნამდა ნამთინე ვიკიპედია მილარე  ,   დო დოჸუნს ამერიკაშ კანონდვალირაფას. თქვანი ქიანაშ კანონეფქ შილებე ვა გოხურგუანი ზიტყვაშ დუდიშალა თიშნერ ფირჩას, მუჭოთ ამერიკაშ კანონდვალირაფაქ დო    .
 , რახანით რე ზოხორინელი დუდიშული ჯარალაუა, დორსხუაფილი ოგანმანათლებელე, კულტურული დო ინფორმაციული რესურსიშ დარსხუაფალო. ინფორმაცია ვიკიპედიას იფაჩუ   ლიცენზიათ.
 მარდის გიგანთ, თე ხასჷლაშ ოკითხირალო ბორჯიშ მუკოჸოთამაშენ. მენდი მიღუნა, ნამდა ვიკიპედია ქჷდოიტალენა ხვალე ჯგირი ინნახანტეფს.


URL: https://mzn.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%BE%D8%B1%D9%88%DA%98%D9%87:%D8%AA%DA%A9%D8%B0%DB%8C%D8%A8%E2%80%8C%D9%86%D9%88%D9%85%D9%87%D9%94_%D9%87%D9%85%D9%87%E2%80%8C%DA%AF%D9%88%D9%86%DB%8C

Content: ویکی‌پدیا، اتا دانشنامه با محتویات آزاد و حاصل کار داوطلبونهٔ ونه کارورون هسته. اینتا پروژه‌ی هدف بساتن منبعی آزاد دانش بشری وسّه هسته. ونه ساختار به گونه‌ای هسته که هرکسی که دسترسی به اینترنت داشت‌بائه بتونده ونه بنویشته‌ئون ره تغییر هاده. پس این ره بدونین که اینجه‌ی بنویشته‌ئون ره هیچ کسی بازرسی نکانده و همینسه ونه بنویشته‌ئون بتونده غلط بوئه.
 گرچه اینتا سایت دله چیزون خله خاری هم پیدا بونه ولی اِما وشون ره تضمین نکامبی و این بنویشته‌ئون گرچه ونه منبع‌دار و معتبر بائن، ولی تضمین‌بَیی نینه. شِما هم هرچی که ونه دله دره ره بتوندی کار بزنی.


URL: https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:Aviso_geral

Content: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A   é uma enciclopédia   de conteúdo aberto, isto é, uma associação voluntária de indivíduos e grupos que estão desenvolvendo um repositório comum do conhecimento humano. Sua estrutura permite que qualquer indivíduo com uma conexão à Internet e um navegador   possa alterar o conteúdo aqui encontrado. Portanto, por favor, esteja ciente de que nenhum conteúdo aqui encontrado foi necessariamente revisado por profissionais capacitados especificamente nas áreas de conhecimento necessárias, de modo a poder providenciar informações completas, precisas e credíveis sobre qualquer assunto na Wikipédia.
 Isso não quer dizer que não encontre muitas informações precisas e valiosas na Wikipédia; no entanto, tenha clara noção de que a   Elas podem ter sido mudadas, vandalizadas ou alteradas por alguém cuja opinião não corresponda ao "estado do conhecimento" na área particular que está interessado em aprender.
 Estamos trabalhando em maneiras de selecionar e aprovar versões confiáveis dos artigos, mas ainda assim sem garantias. A Wikipédia não é revista de forma constante e uniforme; a despeito dos leitores poderem corrigir erros ou remover sugestões incorretas, eles não têm nenhuma obrigação legal de fazê-lo e, portanto, nenhuma informação encontrada aqui tem qualquer garantia de servir a qualquer uso ou propósito específico.
 
 Por favor, esteja certo de que entende que as informações aqui encontradas são disponibilizadas de forma livre e gratuita, e de que não existe qualquer acordo ou contrato entre você e os proprietários e usuários deste sítio, os proprietários dos servidores onde ele é hospedado, os contribuidores individuais da Wikipédia, qualquer administrador ou operador de sistema do projeto ou qualquer outro indivíduo que esteja de   ligado a este projeto ou projetos correlatos, pelo que não responderão diretamente a qualquer alegação contra eles. É-lhe concedida uma licença limitada para copiar qualquer coisa deste sítio, mas isso não cria nem implica nenhuma obrigação contratual ou extracontratual da parte da Wikipédia, nem de nenhum dos seus agentes, membros, organizadores ou outros usuários.
 Qualquer uma das marcas registradas ou conceitos semelhantes que envolvam direitos autorais que sejam mencionados, usados ou citados nos artigos da Wikipédia são propriedades de seus respectivos donos. O seu uso aqui não implica que você possa utilizá-los com qualquer outro propósito que não o propósito informativo do autor original desses artigos da Wikipédia, sob o sistema de licenciamento CC-BY-SA e GFDL. Salvo quando especificado em contrário, os sítios da Wikipédia e da Wikimedia não são endossados nem afiliados a nenhum dos proprietários destes direitos e como tal a Wikipédia não pode conceder direitos de uso sobre nenhum material que tenha o seu uso restrito por direitos autorais ou conceitos semelhantes.   e não há   com respeito ao uso ou modificação dessas informações além da   (CC-BY-SA) e da  ; além disso, na Wikipédia, ninguém pode ser responsabilizado se alguém editar, modificar ou remover qualquer informação que você tenha contribuído para a Wikipédia ou qualquer dos projetos correlatos. .
 Por favor, note que as informações aqui encontradas podem violar as leis do país ou jurisdição de onde as está vendo. A Wikipédia não encoraja a violação de nenhuma lei, mas como as informações estão guardadas em servidores no Estado da Flórida nos Estados Unidos da América e em outros países da Europa, elas são mantidas pelas proteções garantidas a todos os cidadãos desses países. As leis do seu país podem não reconhecer uma proteção tão ampla à liberdade de expressão quanto as leis dos Estados Unidos, da Europa ou os princípios da ONU, e, deste modo, a Wikipédia não pode ser, de nenhum modo, responsável por uma eventual violação a essas leis, se você indicar ou usar alguma das informações nela contidas.
 Se você precisar de aconselhamento específico (por exemplo: médico, legal, financeiro etc.) por favor procure um profissional legalmente habilitado ou com conhecimentos sobre o assunto. 
 A Wikipédia pode conter artigos e elementos impróprios para menores de idade e que algumas religiões, conjuntos de princípios morais ou até mesmo leis de alguns países considerem impróprios sem nenhum aviso prévio. A Wikipédia não tem nenhuma responsabilidade sobre o controle de conteúdo que você e/ou seu filho, família ou quem quer que seja possa estar acessando, portanto recomenda-se que se utilize algum software específico de controle de conteúdo caso julgue necessário.
 . 
 Obrigado por dispor do seu tempo para ler atentamente esta página e desfrute da Wikipédia.


URL: https://arz.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%D9%8A%D9%83%D9%8A%D8%A8%D9%8A%D8%AF%D9%8A%D8%A7:%D8%AA%D9%86%D8%A7%D8%B2%D9%84_%D8%B9%D9%86_%D9%85%D8%B3%D8%A6%D9%88%D9%84%D9%8A%D9%87_%D8%B9%D9%85%D9%88%D9%85%D9%89

Content: 
 ويكيبيديا ها موسوعه انترنت تعاونيه مفتوحة المحتوى, و هيا شراكه بين المتطوعين الافراد و المجموعات و اللى بيشتغلو على تطوير مصدر معرفى بشرى عام. بتسمح بنية المشروع لكل شخص متصل بالانترنت يعدل المحتوى. لازم تعرف ان مافيش فى المشروع داه حاجه بتلزم انه تمت مصادرته من اهل الخبره المؤهلين لتزويدك بمعلومات معتمده او دقيقه او كامله.
 داه ما بيعنيش انك مش هتلاقى معلومات قيمه و دقيقه فى ويكيبيديا, بالعكس فيه كتير منها, بس بالرغم من داه  , محتوى كل مقاله ممكن يكون اتعدل او   او اتغير من افراد ما بتتطابقش آرائهم مع النصوص المعرفيه فى المجالات المتعلقه بالمقاله. لاحظ ان اكتر الموسوعات و المصادر فيها اخلاء مسؤوليه كمان.
 محررو مجتمع ويكيبيديا النشطين بيستعملو ادوات زى تغذيات   و   عشان يراقبو تعديلات المحتوى و المحتوى الجديد, و بالرغم من دا ويكيبيديا مافيهاش مصادرة اقران رسميه, القراء ممكن يصححو الاخطاء او يشتركو فى الاراء, بس مش مجبرين بدا و بالتالى كل المعلومات هنا مالهاش اى ضمانات دايما, و حتى المقالات اللى تمت مراجعتها عبر الاقران الرسميه او هيا  , ممكن يحصل عليها تعديل مش مناسب قبل ما تقراها.
 
 المعلومات هنا باتقدم بشكل حر, و مافيش عقد بينك و بين مستخدمين او مسؤولين الموقع داه او مسؤولين الخوادم اللى بتستضيف معلومات الموقع, و لا الافراد المساهمين و لا اداريين المشاريع و لا مشغلين النظام, و لا كل مين ليه صله بالمشروع داه  , و لا بالمشاريع الشقيقه, كمان هما مش عرضه لادعاءاتك المباشره ضدهم. ليك رخصه محدوده بنسخ اى حاجه من الموقع داه, و الرخصه ما بتدلش لا تصريحا او تلميحا على اى التزام تعاقدى او غير تعاقدى من جهة ويكيبيديا او واحد من وكلائها او اعضائها او منظميها او مستخدمين تانيين.
 بخصوص استعمالك او تعديلك للمعلومات,   الا حسب رخصة المشاع الابداعى النسبه-الترخيص بالمثل 3.0 (CC-BY-SA) و رخصه جنو للوثائق الحره (GFDL), و ما بيتحملش اى شخص فى ويكيبيديا مسؤولية تغيير او تنقيح او تعديل او حذف معلومات ممكن تنشرها انت على ويكيبيديا او اى من المشاريع المرتبطه بيها.
 كل علامه تجاريه او علامه خدمه او علامه جماعيه او حقوق تصميم و و الى زييها من الحقوق المشار ليها او المستعمله او المستشهد بيها فى مقالات ويكيبيديا هيا ملك لاصحابها بالكامل, دا ما بيستلزمش انه جايز ليك تستعملها لاى غرض غير الاستعمال المعلوماتى المماثل او المشابه للى كان بيقصده المؤلفين الاصليين للمقالات فى ويكيبيديا حسب رخصة المشاع الابداعى النسبه-الترخيص بالمثل 3.0 (CC-BY-SA) و رخصه جنو للوثائق الحره (GFDL). مواقع ويكيبيديا و ويكيميديا ما بتديش تاييد من اصحاب الحقوق و لا المشاركه معهم, و ويكيبيديا مالهاش انها تمنح حقوق استعمال المواد المحميه الا حسب الرخص المذكوره. استخدامك لاى من المواد دى او اللى شبهها هيكون على مسؤوليتك الخاصه.
 ويكيبيديا بتحتوى مواد ممكن تظهر فيها صور اشخاص ممكن التعرف عليهم سواء كانوا عايشيين او اتوفو مؤخرا. استعمال صور الاحياء او اللى اتوفو, كلها مقيده حسب ضوابط حقوق الشخصيه فى بعض النظم القضائيه, بمعزل عن حالة حقوق النشر الخاصه بيها. قبل استعمال الانواع دى من المحتوى, لو سمحت التاكد من حصولك على حق استعمالها حسب القانون اللى بيتطابق مع الظروف المطلوبه لاستعمالك.  .
 ممكن تقرا فى ويكيبيديا معلومات و انت فى دوله او بعض المناطق اللى ما بتسمحش بنشر المعلومات دى. لازم تعرف ان قاعدة بيانات ويكيبيديا موجوده فى الولايات المتحده الامريكيه, و بيحافظ عليها بموجب الحمايه اللى بتسمح بيها القوانين المحليه و الفدراليه هناك. القوانين اللى فى دولتك او بعض مناطقها ممكن ما تحميش او ما بتسمحش ببعض الانواع من المواد او التوزيع. ويكيبيديا ما بتشجعش على خرق القوانين, و ما تقدرش تتحمل مسؤولية اى خروقات للقوانين دى.
 لو احتجت مشوره اختصاصيه (زى مشوره طبيه او قانونيه او ماليه او ادارة مخاطر), لازم تطلبها من اهل الاختصاص المرخصين او المعروفين فى مجالهم.


URL: https://ms.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Penafian_umum

Content: Wikipedia merupakan ensiklopedia bebas dan terbuka. Ia ialah hasil usaha gabungan penglibatan individu dan kumpulan sukarelawan yang berusaha untuk membangunkan sumber pengetahuan rujukan orang ramai. Struktur projek ini membolehkan sesiapa sahaja yang mempunyai sambungan Internet untuk mengubah kandungannya. Dengan ini, dimaklumkan bahawa sebarang maklumat dipaparkan dalam Wikipedia tidak semestinya telah dinilaikan kesahihannya oleh golongan profesional dalam sebarang bidang yang berkaitan untuk ketepatan dan kesahan maklumat. 
 Hal ini tidaklah bermakna anda tidak akan menemui sebarang maklumat tepat di Wikipedia kerana kebanyakan daripada kandungan kami dikemaskinikan dari semasa ke semasa. Namun begitu,  . Kandungan sesuatu rencana mungkin telah disunting, dirosakkan atau ditukar oleh seseorang yang mungkin berpendapat lain dalam bidang berkenaan. Untuk maklumat anda, kebanyakan daripada ensiklopedia dan bahan rujukan lain juga mempunyai penafian seperti di atas.      
 Kami sentiasa berusaha untuk memilih dan memastikan versi rencana yang dipaparkan ialah yang terbaik. Kommuniti penyunting aktif kami menggunakan peralatan seperti   dan   untuk memantau sebarang perubahan dan kandungan baharu. Namun begitu, kandungan Wikipedia tidak dinilai secara menyeluruh; walaupun pembaca mungkin membetulkan sebarang kesilapan, mereka tidak mempunyai sebarang kewajipan dari segi undang-undang untuk bertindak sedemikian. Oleh itu, kesemua informasi yang dibaca di sini adalah tanpa sebarang jaminan untuk apa-apa tujuan dan sebagainya. Kanduangan rencana yang telah dikategorikan sebagai telah dinilai atau dipilih sebagai   juga mungkin telah ditukar atau disunting sebelum anda membacanya.            
 
 Sila pastikan anda memahami bahawa maklumat di sini disediakan secara percuma, bebas dan tanpa sebarang ikatan, perjanjian atau persetujuan antara anda dengan pemilik tapak web ini dan pengguna-penggunanya, pemilik-pemilik pelayan di mana ia disimpan, para penyumbang individu Wikipedia, pentadbir projek,   atau sesiapa sahaja yang berkaitan dengan   dan projek-projek berkembarnya untuk menerima sebarang tuntutan daripada anda secara langsung. Anda hanya diizinkan lesen terhad untuk membuat salinan sebarang bahan daripada tapak web ini; kebenaran ini tidak menjadikannya atau bermaksud kontrak mahupun kontrak penambahan liabiliti kepada pihak   atau sebarang ejen-ejennya, ahli-ahlinya, pengurusannya dan pengguna-pengguna lainnya.
  untuk sebarang penggunaan atau perubahan informasi tertakluk dalam   (CC-BY-SA) dan   (GFDL); mahupun sesiapa yang berkaitan dengan Wikipedia bertanggungjawab untuk mengubah, menyunting atau memadamkan sebarang informasi yang anda mungkin tulis atau paparkan dalam Wikipedia atau projek-projek berkaitan dengannya.
 Mana-mana tanda dagangan, tanda perkhidmatan, tanda kolektif, hak reka bentuk atau hak-hak yang disertakan dan dinyatakan dalam artikel ensiklopedia   merupakan hak milik pemilik masing-masing. Penggunaan bahan tersebut di sini tidak bermakna anda boleh menggunakannya untuk kegunaan lain atau untuk penyebaran informasi seperti yang dinyatakan oleh penulis artikel Wikipedia tersebut di bawah skema perlesenan CC-BY-SA dan GFDL. Melainkan jika dinyatakan, Wikipedia dan laman-laman Wikimedia tidak berkaitan atau disahkan berhubung kait dengan mana-mana pemegang hak tersebut. Wikipedia tidak mampu memberi sebarang hak penggunaan mana-mana bahan yang dilindungi. Penggunaan bahan tersebut adalah di bawah tanggungan dan risiko anda.
 Wikipedia mungkin mengandungi bahan yang menggambarkan seseorang yang masih hidup atau meninggal dunia. Penggunaan imej-imej ini, dalam bidang kuasa tertentu, dihalang oleh undang-undang hak personaliti yang bebas daripada hak cipta bahan tersebut. Sebelum menggunakan bahan jenis ini, sila pastikan anda mempunyai hak untuk menggunakannya dalam bidang kuasa undang-undang. Anda bertanggungjawab untuk memastikan hak personaliti seseorang tidak dicabuli.
 Penerbitan informasi yang dijumpai dalam Wikipedia mungkin dianggap salah di sisi undang-undang di negara atau bidang kuass di mana anda membaca informasi ini. Pangkalan data Wikipedia disimpan dalam pelayan di Negeri Florida, Amerika Syarikat dan diselenggara mengikut peruntukan dalam undang-undang persekutuan dan tempatan Amerika Syarikat. Wikipedia tidak menggalakkan pelanggaran mana-mana undang-undang dan tidak bertanggungjawab untuk sebarang pelanggaran undang-undang yang berlaku seandainya anda menghubungkan domain ini atau menggunakan, mengeluarkan semula, atau menerbitkan maklumat yang terkandung di sini.
 Seandainya anda memerlukan sebarang nasihat (dalam bidang seperti perubatan, perundangan, kewangan atau sebagainya) sila dapatkan khidmat profesional yang berlesen atau mempunyai kepakaran dalam bidang tersebut.
 


URL: https://qu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://mt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedija:%C4%8Aa%C4%A7da_%C4%A1enerali

Content: 
 Il-Wikipedija hija enċiklopedija kollaborativa b'kontenut ħieles, li tfisser, assoċjazzjoni volontarja ta' individwi u gruppijiet li jaħdmu flimkien sabiex jibnu proġett ta' għerf komuni. L-istruttura tal-proġett tippermetti li kwalunkwe persuna li għandu aċċess għall-internet sabiex ikun jista' jagħmel modifiki fil-kontenut. Jekk jogħġbok għaraf il-fatt li l-kontenut li jinstab hawnhekk kien neċessarjament revedut minn persuna esperta sabiex jingħata informazzjoni kompleta, preċiża u li tista' torbot fuqu.
 Dan ma jfissirx però li mintix se ssib informazzjoni preċiża u ta' valur kbir fil-Wikipedija; ħafna drabi għandek issib. Minkejja dan,   Il-kontenut ta' artiklu jista' jiġi riċentament ġie modifikat, vandalizzat jew modifikat minn persuna li huwa ta' opinjoni differenti f'dak il-qasam.
 Qegħdin naħdmu fuq mezzi sabiex nagħżlu u nimmarkaw verżjonijiet li wieħed jista' jorbot fuqhom. Il-komunità attiva ta' edituri jagħmlu użu minn għodda bħat-  u tal-  sabiex ikunu jistgħu jaraw kontenut ġdid jew modifiki li qegħdin isiru. Madankollu, il-Wikipedija ma tiġix reveduta bl-istess mod jiġifieri, waqt li qarrejja jistgħu jikkoreġu żbalji jew jieħdu sehem f' , huma m'għandhom l-ebda rabta legali u għalhekk kull informazzjoni li jinqara hawnhekk huwa implikat bla pleġġ għal kull raġuni. Anke artikli li jiġu kkorreġuti minn reviżjoni informali mill-komunità jew dawk li jkunu   jistgħu aktar tard jiġu modifikati bla rażan, qabel ma tarahom.  
 
 Kun żgur li tifhem li l-informazzjoni pprovduta hawnhekk qiegħda tiġi provduta b'xejn, u li l-ebda tip ta' qbil jew kuntratt jinħoloq bejnek u bejn is-sidien jew l-utenti ta' dan is-sit, is-sidien tas-servers fejn din tinsab, il-kontributuri individwali tal-Wikipedija, l-amministraturi ta' kwalunkwe proġett, jew xi ħadd ieħor li b'xi mod jew ieħor   ma' dan il-proġett jew proġetti relatati li huma suġġetti għad-domandi tiegħek lejhom. Inti qiegħed tingħata liċenzja limitata li tikkopja li trid minn fuq dan is-sit; min-naħa tal-Wikipedija din ma toħloqx jew timplika ebda responsabbilità kuntrattwali jew ekstra-kuntrattwali jew kwalunkwe mill-aġenti tagħha, il-membri, l-organizzaturi jew utenti oħra.
 Inti qiegħed tingħata liċensja limitata sabiex tikkopja xi affarijiet minn dan is-sit; minn naħa tal-wikipedija ma toħloqx l-ebda dejn jew qbil formali jew kwalunkwe tal-aġenti tagħha, membri, organiżaturi jew utenti oħrajn. 
 M'hemm   rigward l-użu jew modifikar ta' din l-informazzjoni li huwa 'l fuq mill-iskop tal-  (GFDL); lanqas xi ħadd mill-Wikipedija m'huwa responsabbli jekk xi ħadd ibiddel, jimmodifika jew ineħħi xi informazzjoni li int tissottometti fuq il-Wikipedija jew proġett assoċjat.  
 Kwalunkwe trejdmarks, marki tas-servizzi, marki kollettivi, drittijiet tad-disinn jew drittijiet simili li huma msemmija, użati jew kwotati fl-artikli tal-enċiklopedija tal-Wikipedija huma propjetà tas-sidien rispettivi. L-użu tagħhom hawnhekk ma timplikax li inti tista' tużahom għal xi raġunijiet oħra minbarra dak ta' l-istess użu ta' informazzjoni jew wieħed simili kif kontemplat mill-awturi oriġinali tal-artikli tal-Wikipedija taħt l-iskema ta' liċenzjar tal-GFDL. Sakemm mhux iddikjarat b'mod ieħor, il-Wikipedija u s-siti tal-Wikimedia m'huma la approvaturi u lanqas affiljati mal-ebda mis-sidiein tat-tali drittijiet u persè l-Wikipedija ma tistax tagħti drittijiet biex tuża' materjal li huwa protett. Huwa riskju tiegħek jekk tuża din il-proprjetà inkorporali jew waħda simili.
 Il-Wikipedija għandha materjal li jista' juri persuna identifikament ħajja jew persuna li mietet riċentament. L-użu ta' stampi ta' individwi ħajjin jew li għadhom kif imutu riċentament, f'ċerti kazijiet, huwa ristretti bil-liġi minħabba d-  tagħhom, li huma independenti mill-istatus tagħhom ta' copyright. Qabel ma tuża' dan it-tip ta' kontenut, aċċerta ruħek li għandek id-dritt li tużah taħt il-liġijiet li japplikaw fiċ-ċirkustanzi involuti.  
 Pubblikazzjoni ta' informazzjoni li tinsab fil-Wikipedija tista' tkun qed tivvjola l-liġijiet tal-pajjiż jew ġurisdizzjoni minn fejn qiegħda tintwera din l-informazzjoni. Id-databażi tal-Wikipedija hija maqfula f'server fl-Istat ta'   fl- , u hija mantenuta b'referenza għall-protezzjonijiet tal-mezzi pprovduti taħt il-liġijiet legali u federali. Il-liġijiet fil-pajjiż jew il-ġurisdizzjoni tiegħek jistgħu lanqas jipproteġuk jew jħalluk l-istess tip ta' taħdit u distribuzzjoni. Il-Wikipedija ma tagħtix parir li tikser xi liġijiet, u ma tistax tkun responsabbli minn dawn l-atti, jekk inti se tabbina ma' dan id-dominju jew tuża, tirriproduċi, jew terġa' tippubblika l-informazzjoni li hawn hawnhekk. 
 Jekk trid parir speċifiku (eżempju, dak mediku, legali, finanzjarju, jew l-immaniġjar tar-riskji) fittex nies professjonali li huma liċenzjati jew għandhom il-ħila f'dak il-qasam partikulari.


URL: https://pl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Korzystasz_z_Wikipedii_tylko_na_w%C5%82asn%C4%85_odpowiedzialno%C5%9B%C4%87

Content: Wikipedia jest encyklopedią sieciową tworzoną w otwartym gronie współpracowników, czyli w grupie ochotników i grup wolontariuszy, wspólnie zbierających ludzką wiedzę. Przyjęte założenia pozwalają każdej osobie dysponującej połączeniem z Internetem na zmienianie treści Wikipedii. Należy jednak zakładać, że zamieszczone w projekcie treści nie zostały przejrzane przez osoby kompetentne w poszczególnych dziedzinach wiedzy i że mogą one nie stanowić kompletnej, dokładnej czy rzetelnej informacji.
 Nie oznacza to, że w Wikipedii nie da się znaleźć wartościowych i dokładnych informacji – w wielu przypadkach Wikipedia zamieszcza materiały dobrej jakości. Wikipedia jednak  . Zawartość dowolnego hasła mogła niedawno ulec zmianom lub zniszczeniu przez osoby, których opinie nie są zbieżne z aktualnym stanem wiedzy w danej dziedzinie. Większość innych encyklopedii, co warte odnotowania, również zawiera oświadczenia podobne do niniejszego.
 Pracujemy nad tym, by przedstawiać i oznaczać wartościowe wersje haseł w Wikipedii. Aktywna społeczność współtwórców Wikipedii korzysta z różnych mechanizmów, na przykład  , czy  , w celu monitorowania pojawiających się nowych haseł oraz modyfikacji w istniejących. Wikipedia nie korzysta jednak z jakiegokolwiek formalnego systemu przeglądu treści – użytkownicy mogą poprawiać błędy i angażować się w nieformalne kręgi zainteresowań, nie są jednak do tego w żaden sposób zobligowani – zawarte więc w Wikipedii treści nie niosą z sobą zapewnienia, że są odpowiednie do jakiegokolwiek wykorzystania. Nawet artykuły, które w wyniku nieformalnego przeglądu zostały wyróżnione statusem haseł  , mogły zostać w nieodpowiedni sposób zmienione tuż przed ich wyświetleniem jednemu z czytelników.
 
 Należy pamiętać, ze prezentowane w Wikipedii treści publikowane są za darmo i że pomiędzy czytelnikiem a właścicielami i użytkownikami serwisu nie jest w wyniku czytania treści Wikipedii zawierana jakakolwiek umowa. Podobna zależność zachodzi w odniesieniu do właścicieli serwerów udostępniających treści Wikipedii, poszczególnych współredaktorów projektu, administratorów, personelu technicznego albo kogokolwiek w jakikolwiek sposób związanego z Wikipedią lub jej projektami siostrzanymi. Czytelnicy otrzymują treści na ograniczonej licencji, pozwalającej na kopiowanie prezentowanych im treści; licencja ta nie nakłada jednak na Wikipedię ani żadnego z jej współtwórców, członków, organizatorów, czy innych użytkowników żadnych zobowiązań wynikających z umowy lub od umowy niezależnych.
 Pomiędzy czytelnikiem a Wikipedią   w kwestii wykorzystywania zmodyfikowanych treści haseł wykraczająca poza ustalenia licencji   oraz  . Podobnie, nikt powiązany w jakikolwiek sposób z Wikipedią nie jest odpowiedzialny za modyfikowanie, edytowanie, czy usuwanie informacji zamieszczanych przez poszczególnych użytkowników w Wikipedii i jej projektach siostrzanych.
 Wszelkie  , usługowe, organizacyjne, prawa projektowe i inne przywołane, wykorzystywane i cytowane w hasłach Wikipedii, należą do ich właścicieli. Ich zamieszczenie na stronach Wikipedii nie oznacza, że dopuszczalne jest wykorzystywanie ich w sposób inny, niż założyli to współtwórcy artykułów Wikipedii: informacyjny i udostępniony na mocy licencji CC-BY-SA 3.0 oraz GFDL. O ile nie zaznaczono inaczej, strony projektów Wikimedia, w tym Wikipedii, nie są autoryzowane przez właścicieli praw, czy z nimi związane, więc Wikipedia nie gwarantuje wolności użytkowania tego rodzaju materiałów. Korzystasz z tego rodzaju i podobnej własności intelektualnej na własne ryzyko.
 Wikipedia zawiera materiały mogące przedstawiać wizerunki identyfikowalnych osób, które jeszcze żyją lub niedawno zmarły. W niektórych systemach prawnych wykorzystywanie wizerunków osób żyjących lub niedawno zmarłych jest regulowane prawami dotyczącymi ochrony  , niezależnie od ich statusu prawnoautorskiego. Przed wykorzystaniem zawartości tego typu należy upewnić się, czy można użyć jej zgodnie z prawem, które dotyczy warunków danego zastosowania tej zawartości.  
 Publikowanie znalezionych w Wikipedii informacji może być sprzeczne z systemem prawnym państwa, z terytorium którego przeglądana jest zawartość Wikipedii. Baza danych Wikipedii umieszczona jest na serwerach znajdujących się na terenie Stanów Zjednoczonych i prowadzona jest zgodnie z zasadami ochrony prawa lokalnego oraz federalnego tego kraju. System prawny kraju, z którego przeglądana jest zawartość Wikipedii, może nie zezwalać na taką samą wolność słowa lub rozpowszechniania informacji jak prawo amerykańskie. Wikipedia nie zachęca do naruszania żadnych przepisów prawa i nie może odpowiadać za ewentualne ich naruszenie, w przypadku gdy ktoś umieści link do jej strony, użyje, powieli lub opublikuje zawarte w niej informacje.
 Osoby chcące uzyskać poradę w określonej dziedzinie (np. medyczną, prawną, finansową czy związaną z zarządzaniem ryzykiem) powinny skonsultować się ze specjalistą w tej dziedzinie.


URL: https://mr.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AA%E0%A5%80%E0%A4%A1%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%BE:%E0%A4%B8%E0%A4%B0%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%B8%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%A7%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%A3_%E0%A4%89%E0%A4%A4%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%A4%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%A6%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%A4%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%B8_%E0%A4%A8%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%B0

Content: 
  –   –   –   –  
 आपण मराठी     संकेतस्थळाच्या   नावाच्या सर्वसाधारण विभागात पोहोचला आहात. मराठी विकिपीडियातील कोणताही लेख किंवा पान   किंवा महाराष्ट्राबाहेरील कोणत्याही व्यक्तीचे/संस्थेचे प्रत्यक्ष किंवा अप्रत्यक्ष प्रतिनिधित्व करत नाही. कोणत्याही संस्थेची वा व्यक्तीची समस्या, तक्रार, किंवा शंका निवारण करणारे केंद्र/पान या संकेतस्थळावर -(वेब साइटवर)- उपलब्ध नाही .धन्यवाद!
 
 विकिपीडिया हा आंतरजालावरील (ऑनलाइन) मुक्तपणे मजकूर लिहिणार्‍या सहयोगी लोकांचा   (ज्ञानकोश/एनसायक्लोपीडिया) आहे.  म्हणजे  थोडक्यात, विकिपीडिया हे मानवी ज्ञानाच्या सामाईक स्रोतांवर  काम करणार्‍या स्वयंसेवी व्यक्तींचे व स्वयंसेवी गटांचे एक स्वयंस्फूर्त संघटन आहे. संगणक वापरणार्‍या व आंतरजाल जोडणी    उपलब्ध असलेल्या कुणालाही मजकुरात भर टाकता येईल किंवा त्यात बदल करता येतील अशी या प्रकल्पाची रचना आहे.  येथे लिहिलेल्या कोणत्याही गोष्टीची/माहितीची परिपूर्णता, तिचा अचूकपणा किंवा तिची विश्वासार्हता यांची संबधित विषयांतील तज्‍ज्ञ व्यक्तीकडून पडताळणी झाली असल्याची/माहितीचे समसमी़क्षण   झाले असल्याची  , हे कृपया लक्षात घ्यावे.
 याचा अर्थ असा नव्हे की, विकिपीडियात महत्त्वाची व अचूक माहिती असणारच नाही. उलट, येथे असलेली बहुतेक माहिती आपल्याला महत्त्वाची व अचूक अशीच आढळेल.
 तरीपण,   कोणत्याही लेखातील कोणताही मजकूर  खर्‍याखुर्‍या जाणकार व्यक्तीच्या मतांशी न जुळणार्‍या किंवा संबंधित क्षेत्रातील ज्ञानाच्या अद्ययावत स्थितीबद्दल  काहीच माहिती नसलेल्या व्यक्तीकडून पूर्ण अथवा अंशतः  बदललेला किंवा विध्वंसित/उत्पातित झालेला असू शकतो. येथे हे लक्षात घ्या की, इतरही बहुतेक सर्व विश्वकोशांमध्ये (एनसायक्लोपीडियाज) आणि संदर्भ ग्रंथांमध्येसुद्धा    अंतर्भूत असतात.
 आम्ही लेखांची विश्वासार्ह आवृत्ती निवडल्यानंतर तिला अपरिवर्तनीय करण्याच्या विषयात मार्ग शोधण्याच्या प्रयत्‍नात आहोत. आमचा सक्रिय संपादक समुदाय नवीन आणि बदलत्या मजकुरावर लक्ष ठेवण्यासाठी  ,   रसद   इत्यादी पूरक साधने वापरत असतो.  तरीसुद्धा, विकिपीडिया सार्वत्रिकपणे समसमिक्षीत/पडताळून झालेला नसतो; वाचक त्रुटी दूर करू शकतात किंवा  वरवरचे     करू शकतात, पण त्यांच्यावर तसे करण्याची कोणतीही अधिकृत किंवा कायद्याने बंधनकारक जबाबदारी नाही. आणि म्हणून, येथे वाचलेल्या कोणत्याही माहितीमध्ये, कोणत्याही परिस्थितीत, कोणत्याही उपयोगाकरिता किंवा कोणत्याही उद्देशाकरिता पात्रतेची हमी अंतर्भूत करता येत नाही.  अणि अगदी   सारखे (अनौपचारीक) विषयतज्ञांद्वारा मूल्यांकन  झालेले व मान्यता दिलेले लेखही    नंतरच्या काळात,  तुम्ही पहाण्याच्या अगदी अगोदर, (अगदी अपात्र व्यक्तींकडूनही), अयोग्य पद्धतीने संपादित केले गेलेले असू शकतात.
 
 येथे उपलब्ध केलेली/झालेली माहिती   स्वरूपात उपलब्ध केली जाते, हे आपणास समजले असल्याची कृपा करून खात्री करून घ्या. तुम्ही आणि या संस्थळाचे (site) मालक अथवा या संकेतस्थळाचे उपयोगकर्ते यांचा आपापसात कोणताही करार अथवा समझोता उद्भवत नाही. हे संस्थळ स्थापित असलेल्या विदादात्यांचे मालक (owners of the servers), व्यक्तिगत विकिपीडिया योगदानकर्ते,  प्रकल्प-प्रचालक(प्रबंधक), प्रचालक किंवा   या प्रकल्पाशी किंवा त्याच्या सहप्रकल्पांशी   इतर जण, यांतला कोणीही त्यांच्या विरोधातील तुमच्या कोणत्याही दाव्यास प्रत्यक्ष जबाबदार (जिम्मेवार) असणार नाही.
 तुम्हाला या संकेतस्थळावरून काहीही नकलवण्याचा  परवाना केवळ   आहे; त्यामुळे, विकिपीडियाबरोबर अथवा त्याच्या कोणत्याही प्रतिनिधी, सदस्य, संयोजक किंवा इतर सदस्याबरोबर कोणताही प्रत्यक्ष किंवा अप्रत्यक्ष करार करणे किंवा त्यांच्याकडून करारांतर्गत अथवा करारेतर  कायदेशीर दायित्व (जबाबदारी) घेणे संभवत नाही. दायित्व (जबाबदारी) निर्मिती करेल असा कोणताही करार कोणत्याही प्रकारे स्वीकारार्ह असणार नाही.  
 
 
तुमच्या या संकेतस्थळाच्या अथवा सहप्रकल्पांच्या उपयोगाच्या, किंवा माहितीतील बदलांच्या संदर्भाने   (CC-BY-SA) आणि the   (GFDL)च्या परिघापलीकडे  "तुमच्यात आणि विकिपीडियात कोणताही समझोता अथवा करार नाही";  प्रकल्पावर तुम्ही चढवलेली कोणतीही माहिती/मजकूर दुसर्‍या कुणीही पूर्णपणे अथवा अंशतः संपादित करून तिच्यात बदल केल्यास, अगर काही किंवा संपूर्ण माहिती वगळल्यास; विकिपीडिया किंवा संबंधित दुसरे कुणीही त्याला जबाबदार असणार नाहीत.
 विकिपीडिया विश्वकोश (एनसायक्लोपीडिया)च्या पानातून /लेखातून नमूद केलेली, वापरलेली (used) किंवा संदर्भ दिलेली कोणतीही व्यापार चिन्हे, सेवा चिन्हे (service marks), collective marks, design rights हे, त्यांच्या संबंधित मालकांची संपत्ती आहेत. त्यांचा (इतरांच्या संपत्तीचा), या विकिपीडियातील लेखातील मूळ लेखकास असलेल्या CC-BY-SA आणि GFDL ने अभिप्रेत अशा परवान्याअतंर्गत, समान माहितीच्या पलीकडे तुम्ही उपयोग करू शकता, असा त्याचा अर्थ होत नाही (म्हणजे उपयोग करू शकत नाही).
 तसे स्पष्ट अधिकृतपणे नमूद नसल्यास, विकिपीडिया आणि Wikimedia सारखी संकेतस्थळे  अशा कोणत्याही मालकी हक्कदारांनी दुजोरा दिलेली   endorsed अथवा त्यांच्याशी जोडली गेलेली affiliated नाहीत, असेच अपेक्षित आहे. आणि अर्थातच त्यामुळे, विकिपीडिया अन्यथा otherwise  सुरक्षित अशी साधनसामग्री materials वापरण्यास कोणतीही परवानगी देऊ शकत नाही/देत नाही.  अथवा अशा प्रकारच्या कोणत्याही अमूर्त सामग्रीचा incorporeal property   केलेला कोणताही उपयोग सर्वस्वी तुमच्या स्वतःच्या जबाबदारीवर असेल.
 जीवित अथवा अलीकडेच मृत झालेल्या, आणि नावावरून सहज ओळख पटेल अशा व्यक्तींची माहिती विकिपीडियात प्रकाशित झालेली असू शकते. अशा व्यक्तीचे चित्र किंवा छायाचित्र त्या व्यक्तीच्या किंवा तिच्या वारसाच्या/परिवारातल्या व्यक्तीच्या नकळत किंवा तिच्या/त्यांच्या परवानगीशिवाय वापरणे रूढ संकेताचा भंग करणारे असू शकते. काही देशातील काही कायद्यांनुसार, जीवित अथवा हल्लीहल्ली मृत झालेल्या व्यक्तीच्या चित्रांचा/छायाचित्रांचा   क्षेत्रात मोडणारा वापर प्रतिबंधित केलेला असू शकतो;  हे प्रतिबंधन प्रताधिकारांशिवायचे असण्याची शक्यता आहे. त्यामुळे,    इतरांच्या व्यक्तिस्वातंत्र्याचा संकोच न करण्याची जबाबदारी केवळ तुमची स्वतःची आहे.
 विकिपीडिया contains मजकुर which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or deceased recently.  The use of images of living or recently deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, कृपया ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.   
 ज्या देशातून तुम्ही माहिती पहात आहात त्या देशातील कायद्यानुसार, विकिपीडियात प्रकाशित झालेली एखादी माहिती पाहणे बेकायदेशीर किंवा तिथल्या प्रचलित नियमांचे उल्लंघन करणारे असण्याची शक्यता आहे.  विकिपीडियातील विदा (database)   अमेरिकेमधील   राज्य येथील विदादाता (server) वर संग्रहित केला जातो.  आणि तेथील स्थानिक आणि संघीय कायद्यातील सुरक्षा तरतुदींनुसार सुचालित (maintaine) केली जाते . तुमच्या देशातील कायदे  अशा पद्धतीच्या बोलण्यास, लिहिण्यास वा  मांडणी वितरणास मान्यता अथवा संरक्षण देत असेलच असे नाही. विकिपीडिया कोणत्याही कायद्याच्या उल्लंघनास उत्तेजन देत नाही; आणि म्हणून जर तुम्ही या संकेतस्थळाचा (domain)  दुवा दिलात, येथील उपलब्ध माहिती वापरली , पुनःप्रसारित किंवा पुनःप्रकाशित केली, आणि असे करताना नियमभंग झाला, तर अशा कोणत्याही रीतीने कायद्याच्या किंवा नियमाच्या उल्लंघनास विकिपीडिया किंवा विकिमिडिया जबाबदार नाही..
 जर तुम्हाला वैद्यकीय, कायदा, आर्थिक किंवा जोखीम व्यवस्थापन किंवा अशाच एखाद्या विशिष्ट क्षेत्रातील सल्ल्याची गरज असेल तर असा सल्ला आपण कृपया, परवानाधारक किंवा त्या क्षेत्रातील ज्ञानवंत असेल अशा व्यक्तीकडूनच मिळवावा. विकिपीडिया ही संस्था, असा व्यावसायिक सल्ला देत नाही.
 हे disclaimer इंग्रजी विकिपीडियावरून भाषांतरित केले आहे. जिथे शंका असेल तिथे, मूळ इंग्रजी विकिपीडियातील इंग्रजी उतारा तपासून घ्यावा. या लेखातील तसेच मराठी विकिपीडिया किंवा तिच्या मराठी भाषेतील सहप्रकल्पातील भाषांतराच्या अचूकतेची कोणतीही जबाबदारी मराठी विकिपीडिया किंवा इथे कार्यरत संपादक घेत नाहीत. कायदेशीर वा कोर्ट कार्यवाहीसाठी, वा भाषांतराचा वाद उद्भवल्यास, इंगजी विकिपीडियावरचे disclaimer हे ग्राह्य धरण्यात यावे.   
 खाली केवळ या लेखाच्या संदर्भात लागू पडणार्‍या उपयुक्त तांत्रिक शब्दांचे सामान्य अर्थ दिले आहेत. या लेखास कायदा विषयातील जाणकार व्यक्तीच्या साहाय्याची आवश्यकता आहे. 


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Search

Content: This page is not available in other languages.

URL: https://li.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Algemein_aafwiezing_aansjpraokelikheid

Content: Dees internet-encyclopedie weurt oeteindelijk gesjreve doer jikkerinne dae mit wil sjrieve. Ondanks dat vriewal jikkerinne dae mithölp korrekte informatie prebiert te versjtrèkke kint d'r gein garantie weure gegaeve betriffende de informatie hie. Jikkerinne dae zichzelf deskundig vink maog de tèks verangere. 'n Dudelike fout zal anger medewerkers waal sjnel opvalle en waarsjienlik weure verbaeterd. De tendens is dat artikele oetgebreider en correcter weure. 
 't Is versjtendeg om veur belangrieke dinger naeve dees encyclopedie auch angere nasjlaagwirke of sjpesjelistiese beuk te laeze.
 As e dinks ein   te zeen, bis e wèlkóm om die metein te verbaetere, of - in geval van twiefel 'n opmerking achter te laote op de   van de betriffende pazjena.
 De vriewilligers die dees encyclopedie sjrieve aanvaarde gein aansjpraokelikheid veur de korrektheid van de gegaeve informatie. Ze kinne zelfs neet garandere dat de auteurs zorgvuldigheid zint gewaes bie 't formulere van de artikele. Gebroek van de informatie is gans vrie, meh dan waal veur eige risico.
 D'r zint gebroekers ( ) die op dees website extra meugelikheid op technisch nivo höbbe. Zoas 't weghaole van pazjena's, beveilige van pazjena's en 't ontnömme van sjriefrechte aan gebroekers. Dit zint meugelijkheid die gewoen gebroekers neet höbbe. Deze groep van vriewilligers zint neet de webmasters mer ieder de conciërges van Wikipedia. 't Is 'n oetveurende functie. 't Dageliks besjtuur van de Limburgse Wikipedia besjtit oet de gemeinsjap van de Limburgse Wikipedia.
 Op juridies vlak is de   de eindverantwoerdelikke.
 Als d'r volgens uch ein probleem is, num dan iesjt contac op mèt de Limburgse Wikipedia. As geer een klach wilt versjture dan is dat auch meugelik, op 't Ingelsj, nao:
 Al 't tekstuele matteriaal op Wikipedia vilt onger de  -licentie. Wèn se sjtuk zuus dat urges angesj vandaan kump (book, website...), zonger permissie van de auteursrechhubbende, mèld 't dan of veranger de tèks zelf.


URL: https://xmf.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E1%83%95%E1%83%98%E1%83%99%E1%83%98%E1%83%9E%E1%83%94%E1%83%93%E1%83%98%E1%83%90:%E1%83%92%E1%83%90%E1%83%9B%E1%83%90%E1%83%9B%E1%83%98%E1%83%9C%E1%83%AF%E1%83%90%E1%83%9A%E1%83%90%E1%83%A8_%E1%83%95%E1%83%90%E1%83%A0%E1%83%90%E1%83%A4%E1%83%90

Content: ,  -  დუდიშული დინორეთ, რე მოხალისე  პიჯეფიშ დო ბუნეფიშ ჯარალუა, ნამუეფით ორსხუანა კოჩიშობაშ რჩქინაშ ოირკოჩე ოჩუაშეს. თიში სტრუქტურაშ მეჯინათ ვიკიპედიაშ რედაქტირაფა   დო   მაღვენჯი ნამგარდია პიჯის შეულებჷ. ათეშენ, რთხიინთ გეთოლწონათ, ნამდა მოჸონაფილი ინფორმაცია შილებე ვა რდას გჷნომორსაფილი პროფესიონალეფიშით.
 ვე შილებე თიში რაგადი, ნამდა ვიკიპედიას ვა რე აიწორი დო ოხვილური ინფორმაცია, მორო თქვა ოკო გეთოლწონათ, ნამდა    ვა რე გჷშაკოროცხილი, ნამდა თქვანო საინტერესო ინფორმაცია რდჷ თირელი, გჷლალუაფირი ვარა ჭარილი თი პიჯიშით, მიდგაშ სარზება იშხვანერებუ ზოგადო ეჭოფილი სარზებაშე. 
 ჩქი ირო ბგორჷნთ მაქსიმალურო ბონი დო გოთინილი სტატიეფიშ გჷნომორსაფაშ დო გჷშაგორუაშ შარეფს. ჩქინი უდიდაში მეჭირინდაფა რე  , მორო თინეფით ხოლო შელებუანიე გჷლალუეს-და მუსხირენ მერქაშ წოხოლე სოიშახ თქვა იკითხენდითჷნ.  
 რთხინთ გეთოლწონათ, ნამდა ინფორმაცია, ნამუსჷთ თაქ ძირჷნთჷნ, დორსხუაფილიე დუდიშულო, მუჭოთ ჯამიერი ზალამიშ გჷმორჩქინა. ინფორმაციაშ მიმაჭირინდაფალეფს დო ვიკიპედიაშ მინჯეეფს, ადმინისტრატორეფს, ოპერატორეფს ვარა   დო მაკითხირალეფს შქას ვა რე დოდვალირი მუთუნინერი აპიჯაფა. ათეშენ, ვიკიპედიაშ დინორე ვა გჷნირთუ იურიდიული პრეტენზიეფიშ ოკითხუთ. თქვა გიღუნა ვიკიპედიაშ ანგუაშ ალობა, მორო ვართ თენას იგურხონარებუ მუდგაინი იურიდიული გამამინჯალა  - თქვა ირინუანთ ინფორმაციას დორხველი ზალამით.
 ნამდგარდია ოვაჭარე შანი, მარკეფი, ორგანიზაციეფიშ, მეკონეფიშ ჯოხოეფი, დიზაინი დო ვიკიპედიას გჷმორინაფილი შხვა ვადუდიშული ინფორმაციაშენ ოავტორე ნებეფს ღვალენა თინეფიშ კანონიერი მინჯეეფი. ვიკიპედიაშ დინორე იფაჩუ   ლიცენზიათ, დო თქვა შეილებუნა თინეფიშ გჷმორინაფა ხვალე თე ლიცენზიაშ პიჯალეფიშ ალებათ. რშუდანი, ნამდა თქვა  
 რთხიინთ თაშნეშე გეთოლწონათ, ნამდა ნამთინე ვიკიპედია მილარე  ,   დო დოჸუნს ამერიკაშ კანონდვალირაფას. თქვანი ქიანაშ კანონეფქ შილებე ვა გოხურგუანი ზიტყვაშ დუდიშალა თიშნერ ფირჩას, მუჭოთ ამერიკაშ კანონდვალირაფაქ დო    .
 , რახანით რე ზოხორინელი დუდიშული ჯარალაუა, დორსხუაფილი ოგანმანათლებელე, კულტურული დო ინფორმაციული რესურსიშ დარსხუაფალო. ინფორმაცია ვიკიპედიას იფაჩუ   ლიცენზიათ.
 მარდის გიგანთ, თე ხასჷლაშ ოკითხირალო ბორჯიშ მუკოჸოთამაშენ. მენდი მიღუნა, ნამდა ვიკიპედია ქჷდოიტალენა ხვალე ჯგირი ინნახანტეფს.


URL: https://nds.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Impressum

Content: Anbaden warrt disse Websteed vun de  , indragen bi dat   ünner de Nummer N03000005323. De Wikimedia Foundation is en Sticht na dat Recht vun’n US-Bundsstaat  . De Verantwoortliche un Designated Agent na den Digital Millennium Copyright Act is  .
 Wenn se Fragen hebbt oder en Interview wünscht köönt se sik informell ok an de aktiven Brukers wennen, kiek dorto bi   un  .
  is ene fre’e  , de ünner de   in’t Internett ünner   to finnen is. Mehr dorto steiht in’n  .
 De as „Administraters“ optellten Brukers in de Wikipedia sünd kene offiziellen Vertreders vun’n Anbeder vun disse Websteed. Se sünd blots Brukers, de en beten mehr technische Mööglichkeiten kregen hebbt. Disse Lüüd helpt in de Regel geern un gau bi Fragen oder Problemen, sünd aver op kene Wies för disse Websteed verantwoortlich.
 Elk Bruker is för de vun em instellten Bidrääg sülvs in vullen Ümfang verantwoortlich. Utsluss vun enkelte Brukers behöllt sik de Anbeder vör.
 De Brukers sünd opropen, de Inholten, de se to disse Websteed bistüert, na best Weten to erstellen. Aver  
 De Anbeder verlööft den kommerziellen Bruuk un de Wiedergaav vun de in Wikipedia enthaltenen Daten ünner de Bedingen vun de  , kiek ok bi  .
 De Anbeder wiest op alle Sieden dorop hen, dat Material, dat ünner dat Oorheverrecht vun Drüdde steiht, nich bruukt warrn dröff. In enkelte Fäll kann dat aver vörkamen, dat en Bruker gegen dat Oorheverrecht verstött, ahn dat dat opfallt.
 Wenn de Anbeder en Henwies op so en Vörfall kriggt, denn warrt opsteeds dat Material vun’n Server nahmen. Se köönt sik över de Siet   oder över en E-Mail an de Adress   mellen, wenn se denkt, dat en Wikipedia-Siet gegen ehr Oorheverrecht verstött. Üm dat Bearbeiden vun de Anfraag fix aftosluten, is dat wichtig, de Adress vun de problemaatsche Wikipedia-Siet un den Naam vun dat Originalmaterial, vun dat kopeert worrn is, mit optoföhren.


URL: https://hu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:Jogi_nyilatkozat

Content: 
 
 A   nyílt tartalmú online lexikon, vagyis személyek és csoportok szerveződése annak érdekében, hogy az emberi tudás egyetemes gyűjteményét hozzák létre és azt folyamatosan fejlesszék. A felépítése lehetővé teszi bármely internet kapcsolattal és World Wide Web eléréssel rendelkező egyénnek, hogy az itt található tartalmakat tetszőlegesen módosítsa. Ezért mindenképpen vedd figyelembe, hogy semmiféle itt olvasható tartalom nem ment át olyan szaklektoráláson vagy ellenőrzésen, melyet az adott területek szakértői végeztek volna annak érdekében, hogy biztosítsák, hogy az adott szócikkek szakmailag teljes, pontos vagy megbízható információkat tartalmaznak bármilyen, a Wikipédiában olvasható témában.
 Ez egyáltalán nem jelenti azt, hogy a Wikipédia nem értékes, hasznos és pontos információkat tartalmaz, azonban  . Lehetséges, hogy az információt percekkel korábban módosította valaki, akinek a tudása, szándéka vagy véleménye nem esik egybe az adott területen elvárhatóval. Jelenleg is dolgozunk egy olyan megoldáson, ami lehetővé teszi a szócikkek „megbízható változatának” elérését (ez egyelőre nem jelent tartalmi ellenőrzést, csak az úgynevezett   és a nyilvánvalóan értelmetlen tartalom kiszűrését). Az ellenőrzöttséghez legközelebb álló lehetőség jelenleg a   csoportja, de ezeket a szócikkeket sem ellenőrizte független szakértői gárda, és bárki szerkeszthette a közelmúltban úgy, hogy a változtatást érdemben (azaz szakmailag) még senki nem ellenőrizte.
 A Wikipédia nem folyamatosan ellenőrzött kiadvány. Míg bármely résztvevő képes a hibák kijavítására vagy a téves információk eltávolítására, senki nem köteles ezt megtenni, emiatt semmilyen a Wikipédiában található információval kapcsolatban nem vállalunk garanciát, és nem vállaljuk, hogy az információ bármilyen hasznos célra felhasználható volna.
 
 Kérünk, hogy a szükséges körültekintéssel járj el annak érdekében, hogy meggyőződj arról, hogy a Wikipédia cikkek tartalma helyes és megfelel a céljaidnak. Ha bármilyen veszélyes, illegális vagy etikátlan tartalommal találkozol, vedd figyelembe, hogy ezt az információt bárki elhelyezhette a Wikipédián, és semmi garancia nincs arra, hogy megfelelő jogosultságokkal vagy képességekkel rendelkezik arra nézve, hogy a leírt tevékenység vagy dolog használata vagy alkalmazása biztonságos vagy legális, megfelel annak hogy megelőzze a sérülést, betegséget vagy bármilyen személyi, erkölcsi vagy jogi kárt. Ha szakszerű tanácsra van szükséged (például orvosi, jogi, vagy pénzügyi tanácsokra), akkor vedd fel a kapcsolatot az e téren tevékenykedő szakemberekkel.
 A Wikipédia nem vonható felelősségre semmilyen a benne található információ által okozott kárért, mivel ez magánszemélyek önkéntes társasága azon célból, hogy nyílt oktatási, kulturális és információs erőforrást hozzanak létre. Ez a közlés egyoldalú és tájékoztató jellegű, így nem képez szerződést vagy megegyezést közted és a Wikipédia között a   feltételein túl, amennyiben követed az  .
 
 A Wikipédia számos orvostudományi témakörbe tartozó szócikket tartalmaz, de semmiféle garancia sincs arra, hogy ezen szócikkek tartalma pontos. Nincs biztosíték arra sem, hogy az orvostudományi szócikkekben található állítások és kijelentések teljes mértékben igazak, helyesek, vagy precízek. Még ha egy állítás szerint egy gyógymód egy esetre megfelelő, az nem jelenti azt, hogy az Önre vagy az Ön tüneteire érvényes.
 A Wikipédián található orvosi információk legjobb esetben is csak általános tanácsok, mivel nem helyettesítik, és nem is helyettesíthetik az orvosi végzettségű szakértő (orvos, pszichiáter, ápoló, gyógyszerész, stb.) javallatát. A Wikipédia nem orvosi tanácsadó!
 Sem a Wikipedia.org, sem a   nem hozható összefüggésbe orvosi szolgáltatások, szakvélemények stb. ajánlásával vagy felkínálásával. Természetesen támogatjuk Önt abban, hogy közreműködjön az orvostudományi vagy egészséggel kapcsolatos témakörökben, és az itt található anyagokat is felhasználhatja a   licenc szerint.
 
 A Wikipédia számos   cikket tartalmaz, de semmi nem garantálja e cikkek pontosságát. Semmiképpen nem szavatolhatjuk azt, hogy ezen cikkek tartalma jogi szempontból igaz, pontos és helyes. A jogszabályok jelentős része országról országra változik, esetenként igen gyorsan módosulhat. Még ha egy kijelentés a jogszabályokról pontos, akkor is előfordulhat, hogy csak az adott jogi környezetben vagy az információt közlő személy esetében helytálló; lehetséges az is, hogy az információ közlése óta a jogszabályok megváltoztak, módosították őket, hatályon kívül helyezték, esetleg más jogszabályokkal helyettesítették azóta, hogy a közlés a Wikipédiában megjelent.
 A Wikipédiában megjelenő információ a legjobb esetben is általános esetekre vonatkozik és semmiképpen sem helyettesítheti a témában jártas szakértő jogász tanácsát, aki az eset körülményeit pontosan figyelembe véve képes jogi tájékoztatást adni. Az ajánljuk, vedd fel a kapcsolatot jogi szaktanácsadásra szakosodott személlyel vagy céggel annak érdekében, hogy megfelelő jogi tanácsot kaphass.
 Természetesen arra biztatunk, hogy minél több   kapcsolatos szócikket írj, illetve a joggal kapcsolatos szócikkek tartalmát segíts pontosítani és aktualizálni bármilyen Creative Commons Nevezd meg! – Így add tovább! 4.0 licencnek megfelelő anyag felhasználásával.


URL: https://ro.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Avertisment_general

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 W  N  G  V  A  S 
  este o enciclopedie online cu conținut deschis, adică o asociație de indivizi și grupuri bazată pe voluntariat care dezvoltă împreună o resursă de cunoștințe umane. Structura sa permite oricărui individ cu o conexiune la Internet și un browser să editeze informația găsită aici. De aceea trebuie să rețineți că nimic nu este în mod necesar revizuit de profesioniști bine documentați în diverse domenii particulare, astfel încât vreo informație de pe   să devină în mod garantat completă, precisă sau demnă de încredere.
 Asta nu înseamnă că nu veți găsi multă informație de preț și precisă la  ; totuși, luați în considerare faptul că  . S-ar putea să fi fost modificată recent, vandalizată de cineva, a cărui opinie nu corespunde statutului de cunoștințe din zona particulară de care sunteți interesat(ă). Lucrăm la modalități de a alege și de a aproba cele mai de încredere articole, totuși, fără garanție. Cea mai bună listă de articole de încredere se găsește la  , dar chiar și articolele listate acolo s-ar putea să fi fost editate fără milă, cu scurt timp înainte de a le vedea dvs.
 Vă rugăm să vă asigurați că ați înțeles că informația oferită aici este liberă și gratuită și că nici un fel de înțelegere sau contract nu este creat între dvs. și proprietarii acestui sit, proprietarii serverelor pe care este găzduit acesta, contribuitorii individuali pe  , administratorii proiectului, dezvoltatorii sau oricine altcineva care este în   de acest proiect, pentru a revendica articolele în mod direct. Vă este garantată o licență limitată de a copia din acest sit; aceasta nu creează sau implică nici o răspundere contractuală sau extracontractuală din partea   sau vreunui agent, membru organizator sau alt fel de utilizator al acesteia.
 Orice mărci de fabrică, mărci de serviciu, mărci colective, drepturi de design, drepturi de personalitate sau alte drepturi similare care sunt menționate, folosite sau citate în articolele enciclopediei Wikipedia sunt proprietatea respectivilor posesori. Folosirea lor aici nu implică faptul că dvs. ați putea să le utilizați cu orice scop - altul decât unul similar, adică informațional, precum au considerat autorii originali ai acestor articole Wikipedia sub schema de licență GFDL. Dacă nu este precizat altfel, siturile Wikipedia și Wikimedia nu subscriu și nu sunt afiliate cu nici unul dintre deținătorii unor asemnea drepturi și astfel Wikipedia nu poate garanta nici un drept pentru folosirea vreunui material protejat.  
 Vă rugăm să luați în considerare faptul că informația găsită aici poate viola legile și jurisdicția țării din care dvs. accesați informația.   nu încurajează violarea nici unei legi, dar ținând cont că această informație este stocată pe un server din statul  , în  , aceasta este menținută în concordanță cu protecția oferită tuturor de către   al   și sub principiile   a  . Legile din țara dvs. s-ar putea să nu recunoască o protecție a dreptului la liberă exprimare atât de amplă ca legile Statelor Unite și principiile Cartei ONU, așadar   nu poate fi responsabilă pentru nicio violare potențială a unor asemenea legi, în cazul în care vă conectați la proiect sau folosiți orice informație din acesta, conținută în orice fel.
 , de vreme ce este o asociație de indivizi bazată pe voluntariat dezvoltată liber, pentru a crea diverse resurse educaționale, culturale și informaționale online de tip open source ( ).   și   privind folosirea și modificarea acestei informații în afara licenței  . Nimeni de la   nu este responsabil de informația pe care dvs. o trimiteți la   sau orice alt proiect (cu alte cuvinte, prin faptul că trimiteți informație în vreunul din aceste proiecte acceptați în mod implicit faptul că oricine poate să schimbe, editeze sau elimine informația respectivă).
 Utilizarea Wikipediei este supusă termenilor de utilizare definiți pe   . Pe Wikipedia se aplică doar două legislații: legislația statului California și legislația federală a Statelor Unite ale Americii. Orice litigiu juridic va fi rezolvat în San Francisco County, California. Amenințările cu plângerea penală sau darea în judecată adresate unui redactor al Wikipedia vor conduce la blocarea pe termen nedefinit. Asta nu înseamnă că Wikipedia v-ar putea priva de drepturile dvs. legale, dar veți fi blocat dacă lăsați să se înțeleagă că doriți să rezolvați conflictele cu alți redactori în mod juridic (penal și/sau civil).
 Fundația Wikimedia are statut de  , deci nu va răspunde civil sau penal pentru daunele produse de redactorii Wikipediei. Fundația Wikimedia nu se supune legislației vreunei țări europene, de aceea dreptul european este irelevant în funcționarea Wikipediei. Sigur, orice redactor are obligația să respecte legislația din statul în care se află. De exemplu, un editor polonez care scrie în engleză pe Wikipedia în timp ce se află în Pakistan are obligația de a respecta legislația pakistaneză.
 Legislația europeană în materie de drepturi de autor are relevanță pentru Wikipedia doar în măsura în care este recunoscută și aplicată de Statele Unite ale Americii. De exemplu,   de Abd-ru-shin este în domeniul public în Uniunea Europeană, dar nu și în Statele Unite ale Americii (drepturile de autor au fost restaurate în SUA de Uruguay Round Agreements Act).
 Deoarece se aplică legislația americană, wikipediștii au dreptul să aplice utilizarea cinstită ( ) în editările lor de pe Wikipedia, indiferent de ce-ar zice legislația românească în această privință. După cum am spus mai sus, wikipediștii aflați în România trebuie să respecte legislația românească (asta nu e problema Wikipediei, ci este problema lor personală).
 Administratorii Wikipediei   au obligația de a aplica legile României, este pur și simplu o problemă care nu-i privește. Există un precedent:   . Un wikipedist elvețian, care nu este supus legilor franceze, a anulat ștergerea informațiilor dispusă de serviciul secret francez.
 Un administrator silit să aleagă între respectarea principiilor impuse de Fundația Wikimedia și respectarea legislației românești trebuie să-și dea demisia, pentru a rezolva astfel acest   între datoria lui drept cetățean al României și datoria lui față de Comunitatea Wikipediei.
 Wikipedia în limba română nu este website românesc și nu are nicio obligație de a respecta legile românești.
 Mulțumim pentru că ați folosit din timpul dvs. ca să citiți acestă pagină și vă dorim să savurați experiența dvs. la  . Puteți continua turul pe ro.wiki cu  . 
 
  
•   
•   
•   
•   
•  
•   
•  
•  
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•  
•   
•   
•   
•   
•  
•  
•  
•  
•   
•   
•   
•  
•   
•   
•   
•   
•  
•   
•   
•  
•  
•  
•   


URL: https://lij.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Avertense_gener%C3%A2li

Content: Avertense generale
-   
-   
-   
-   
 
 
 
A   a l'è un'enciclopedia online a contegnuo averto, fruto do travaggio de 'n insemme de volontai, co-o scopo de svilupâ 'na fonte de conoscença comun e libera. Sciben che gh'é de   e 'n scistema non ofiçiale de gestion anonimo e volontaio, a strutua de l'enciclopedia a permette a chi se sæ de modificâ o contegnuo de so pagine. 
 Pertanto, l'è necesaio tegnî a mente che: 
 
 
 . Sta cösa chi, naturalmente, a no l'inplica a mancança d'informaçioin interesante ò acuræ, ma l'é inportante savei che in sciâ Wikipedia ògni contegnuo o poeu ese modificòu, alteròu ò   da chi se segge. Questo scignifica che ogni dæto o informaçion prezente inte voxe da Wikipedia o poriæ no ritrae adeguatamente l'efetivo stato da conoscença condivisa ò a veitæ di fæti. Quarche ediçioin lengoisteghe da Wikipedia àn adotòu di  , ma senpre in forma volontaia e sença garançia. A cosa ciù vexinn-a a questo scistema de seleçion a l'è l'attuale seçion " ", ma ascì e voxe çitæ in essa porieivan ese stæte modificæ sença o contròllo necesaio. 
 
 
E informaçioin riportæ son fornie in mainea libera e gratoita; nisciun tipo d'acòrdio ò contræto o l'è stipulòu, manco inpliçitamente, tra l'utente e i propietai do scito, i utenti, i propietai di server, i aministratoî do progetto, i aministratoî de scistema ò qualonque atra parte a segge   a-a Wikipedia ò a-i progetti colaterali.
 Qualunque marco registròu, marco de serviçio, marco coletivo, drito de design, drito d'inmaggine, de confidençialitæ ò driti scimili, mençionæ ò dêuviæ inte voxe da Wikipedia, o l'é de propietæ di legittimi detentoî. Tutto o materiale inseio inta Wikipedia o ven pubricou da-i utenti (di quæ l'è conservou l'adresso IP a scopo caotelativo) segondo quante previsto da-e liçençie   e  . A Wikipedia a no poeu garantî che i utenti aggian seguio effettivamente quante previsto da-e liçençie sença lede arcun drito: a responsabilitæ da pubricaçion a l'aresta pertanto escluxiva di utenti. Se no diversamente diciarou, i sciti de Wikipedia e Wikimedia no son ni associæ a, ni approvæ da arcun di detentoî de tæ driti.   e a l'è espressamente vietâ.
 L'è garantio 'na liçençia limitâ de coppia di contegnui (segondo e condiçioin previste da-e liçençie   e  ), ma ciò no crea ni implica arcun-a responsabilitæ contrattuale ò extra-contrattuale da parte da Wikipedia ò de 'n qualunque di so agenti, membri, organizzatoî ò atre parte.
 
 
E informaçioin presente porieivan violâ quarche lezze do loeugo da-o quæ vegnan consurtæ. A Wikipedia a scoragisce a violaçion d'ogni lezze, ma percose e informaçioin son conservæ insce di server sciti in  , inti  , se mantegne comme rifeimento e dispoxiçioin generale stabilie da-o   da   e da-a   de  . E lezze do to paise porieivan no riconosce 'na proteçion do drito de parolla coscì ampia. A Wikipedia a no poeu ese consciderâ responsabile pe 'na qualunque violaçion into caxo, per exempio, se faççe a conescion ò s'adoeuvie un-a de informaçioin inte 'n paise into quæ tâ açion a constitoisce un illeççito.
 
 
Leze ascì i avertençe  ,   e   pe-e liberatoie ò pe de claosole speciffiche d'escluxon de responsabilitæ ( ).
 , percose essa a l'è un'associaçion volontaia d'individdoi solo in parte strutturâ e svilupâ liberamente pe creâ de risorse educative, colturali e informative, online e "averte".   e   circa o so utilizzo ò modiffica, a parte o rispetto de liçençie   e  ; a-o mæximo moddo, nisciun inta Wikipedia l'è responsabile pe-o fæto che chissessæ cange, modifiche ò rimoeuve qualunque informaçion che qualunque atro ò lê mæximo o posse avei inseio inta Wikipedia ò inte un quassessæ di so progetti associæ.
 O contegnuo de sta paggina o s'applica a   presente in Wikipedia.
 Graççie pe-o tempo che t'hæ dedicou a-a lettua de sti avertençe generale: t'aguemo 'na navegaçion utile e piaxeive in sciâ Wikipedia.


URL: https://mk.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%98%D0%B0:%D0%9E%D0%B4%D1%80%D0%B5%D0%BA%D1%83%D0%B2%D0%B0%D1%9A%D0%B5_%D0%BE%D0%B4_%D0%BE%D0%B4%D0%B3%D0%BE%D0%B2%D0%BE%D1%80%D0%BD%D0%BE%D1%81%D1%82

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 Википедија е колаборативна онлајн енциклопедија со отворена содржина, т.е. таа е волонтерско здружение на индивидуалци и групи кои работат за да развијат заеднички извор на човеково знаење. Структурата на овој проект овозможува секој кој поседува интернет пристап да ја менува неговата содржина. Ве молиме бидете советувани дека не с  што ќе пронајдете овде е рецензирано од луѓе со стручноста која е потребна за да бидете снабдени со комплетни, точни, или проверливи информации.
 Не велиме дека нема да најдете вредни и прецизни информации на Википедија; поголем дел од времето ќе најдете. Сепак,   Содржината на било која статија може да биде скоро променета, вандализирана или променета од некој чие мислење не е во совпаѓање со состојбата на знаење во релевантните полиња.
 === Без формална рецензија ===
Ние работиме на начини на селекција и истакнување на веродостојни верзии на статии. Нашата активна заедница на уредувачи користи алатки како што се   и   за набљудување на новите содржини и промените на веќе постоечките. Сепак, Википедија нема формална рецензија; иако читателите можат да поправаат грешки и да се вклучат во обична  , тие немаат правна должност да го прават ова, што значи дека сета прочитана информација овде е без гаранција за исправност за било која цел или употреба.
 
 Ве молиме осигурајте да разберете дека информациите што можат да се најдат овде се обезбедени слободно, и дека не е создаден никаков договор помеѓу Вас и сопствениците на ова веб-место, сопствениците на опслужувачите на кои тој е хостиран, поединечните соработници на Википедија, администраторите на проектите, системските оператори или било кој кој е на каков било начин поврзан со овој проект или сродни проекти кој е подложен на вашите тврдења помеѓу нив директно. На Вас ви е овозможена ограничена лиценца да копирате било што од ова веб-место; тоа право не создава или имплицира никаква договорна или вондоговорна одговорност на страната на   или било кој од нејзините агенти, членови, организатори и други корисници.
 , што се однесува на вашата употреба или модификација на овие информација покрај   (CC-BY-SA) и   (GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL)); ниту пак било кој од Википедија е одговорен ако некој ги промени, уреди, модифицира, или отстрани информациите што може ќе ги постирате на   или било кој од нејзините поврзани проекти.
 Било кој од   (трговски марки, услужни марки, колективни марки), правата на дизајнот, личните права или слични права што се споменати, искористени или цитирани во статиите на енциклопедијата Википедија се сопственост на нивните соодветни сопственици. Нивната употреба овде не значи дека може да ги користите за каква било намена надвор од истата или сличната информативна употреба како што е наведено од страна на оригиналните автори на овие Википедија статии под CC-BY-SA и GFDL лиценционите шеми. Доколку не е поинаку нагласено, веб-местата Википедија и Викимедија не се одобрени или поврзани со сопствениците на било кои слични прави и поради тоа Википедија не може да дозволува какви било права на употреба на различно заштитени материјали.  
 Објавувањето на информација што може да се најде на   може да биде некакво прекршување на законите на земјата од каде што ја гледате оваа информација. Базат
Ако имате потреба  некој специфичен совет (на пример, медицински, правен или финансиски), Ве молиме побарајте професионалец кој е лиценциран или запознаен во таа област.


URL: https://mk.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%98%D0%B0:%D0%9E%D0%B4%D1%80%D0%B5%D0%BA%D1%83%D0%B2%D0%B0%D1%9A%D0%B5_%D0%BE%D0%B4_%D0%BE%D0%B4%D0%B3%D0%BE%D0%B2%D0%BE%D1%80%D0%BD%D0%BE%D1%81%D1%82

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 Википедија е колаборативна онлајн енциклопедија со отворена содржина, т.е. таа е волонтерско здружение на индивидуалци и групи кои работат за да развијат заеднички извор на човеково знаење. Структурата на овој проект овозможува секој кој поседува интернет пристап да ја менува неговата содржина. Ве молиме бидете советувани дека не с  што ќе пронајдете овде е рецензирано од луѓе со стручноста која е потребна за да бидете снабдени со комплетни, точни, или проверливи информации.
 Не велиме дека нема да најдете вредни и прецизни информации на Википедија; поголем дел од времето ќе најдете. Сепак,   Содржината на било која статија може да биде скоро променета, вандализирана или променета од некој чие мислење не е во совпаѓање со состојбата на знаење во релевантните полиња.
 === Без формална рецензија ===
Ние работиме на начини на селекција и истакнување на веродостојни верзии на статии. Нашата активна заедница на уредувачи користи алатки како што се   и   за набљудување на новите содржини и промените на веќе постоечките. Сепак, Википедија нема формална рецензија; иако читателите можат да поправаат грешки и да се вклучат во обична  , тие немаат правна должност да го прават ова, што значи дека сета прочитана информација овде е без гаранција за исправност за било која цел или употреба.
 
 Ве молиме осигурајте да разберете дека информациите што можат да се најдат овде се обезбедени слободно, и дека не е создаден никаков договор помеѓу Вас и сопствениците на ова веб-место, сопствениците на опслужувачите на кои тој е хостиран, поединечните соработници на Википедија, администраторите на проектите, системските оператори или било кој кој е на каков било начин поврзан со овој проект или сродни проекти кој е подложен на вашите тврдења помеѓу нив директно. На Вас ви е овозможена ограничена лиценца да копирате било што од ова веб-место; тоа право не создава или имплицира никаква договорна или вондоговорна одговорност на страната на   или било кој од нејзините агенти, членови, организатори и други корисници.
 , што се однесува на вашата употреба или модификација на овие информација покрај   (CC-BY-SA) и   (GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL)); ниту пак било кој од Википедија е одговорен ако некој ги промени, уреди, модифицира, или отстрани информациите што може ќе ги постирате на   или било кој од нејзините поврзани проекти.
 Било кој од   (трговски марки, услужни марки, колективни марки), правата на дизајнот, личните права или слични права што се споменати, искористени или цитирани во статиите на енциклопедијата Википедија се сопственост на нивните соодветни сопственици. Нивната употреба овде не значи дека може да ги користите за каква било намена надвор од истата или сличната информативна употреба како што е наведено од страна на оригиналните автори на овие Википедија статии под CC-BY-SA и GFDL лиценционите шеми. Доколку не е поинаку нагласено, веб-местата Википедија и Викимедија не се одобрени или поврзани со сопствениците на било кои слични прави и поради тоа Википедија не може да дозволува какви било права на употреба на различно заштитени материјали.  
 Објавувањето на информација што може да се најде на   може да биде некакво прекршување на законите на земјата од каде што ја гледате оваа информација. Базат
Ако имате потреба  некој специфичен совет (на пример, медицински, правен или финансиски), Ве молиме побарајте професионалец кој е лиценциран или запознаен во таа област.


URL: https://ps.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%D9%8A%DA%A9%D9%8A%D9%BE%DB%90%DA%89%D9%8A%D8%A7:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content.  Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.  However,    The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.  
 fahim ullah kama که چیرې ستا سو په   کې ویروس شتون ولری نو څنگه پوهیدای شۍ چې زما کمپیوټر په ویروس ککړ دی یوڅو اړین ټکي درپه گوته کوم. د کمپیوټر ویروس یو ډیر زیا نمن شی دی.ځکه ډیر ځله د کمپیوټر کارونکي ته د ویروس دشتون معلوما ت نه کیږي او کله چې کارونکی د ویروس په شتون پوه شي نو وخت له وخته تیروي او ویروس خپل کار کړی وي.داسې ډیرې نښې نښانې شته چې له پلوه یی تا سې په کمپیوټر کې د ویروس دشتون شک کولای شی. لاندینۍ نښې نښا نې اړینه نه ده چې خا مخا به دویروس له شتون نه پیدا شوې وي، ځکه داسې نور ډیر عوامل هم شته چې په کمپیوټر کې دا راز نښې نښانې رامنځته کړي. مگر که چیرې تا سو په خپل کمپیوټر کې یوه هم له دغو لاندینیو نښو څخه ومونده نو ښه به دا وي چې دیوه ښه Antivirus پوستکالي(سا فټ ویر) په مټ خپل کمپیوټر Scan کړۍ. نوموړ ې نښا نې په لاندې ډول دي:  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . ==د ویروسی کمپیوتر نښی==
 ددې لپاره ویروس خپل ځان Replicate دځان په څیر هو به هو د بل ویروس تولیدولو ته وایي.) کړي په کمپیوټر کې د Exe یا Com فا یلونو سره ځان سریښوي.او دا کار نوموړی ویروس څو څو ځله تکراروي ددویروس ددې کار له امله د نوموړو یادو شویو فایلونو میچ (size) ډیر غوټیږي له همدې امله نوموړي فا یلونه په هارډیسک باندې ډیر ځای نیسي. پس که داسې ویروس په خپل وخت ونه نیول شي نودنوموړي ویروس د وار په وار Replication څخه کارونکی په هارډیسک کې دځای دکمښت سره مخامخ کیږی.که چیری ستا سو په کمپیوټر کې د CAD روستاړي لرونکې پوستکا لې او یا هم د Graphics لپاره کارونکي پوستکالي شتون ولري نو داهم ستاسو د هارډیسک ډیر ځای نیسي.په هر حال ددغې پورتنۍ نښې له ښکاره کیدلو سره په خپل کمپوټر با ندې د Antivirus پوستکالی وچلوۍ.
 ډیرو ښا غلیو او آغلیو په پورتنۍ جمله کې Activity د فعا لیت اوLED د 
Light Emitting Diode په مانا دی. چې د رڼا ورکونکي تیوب ما نا ترې اخستلی شو. 
ستا سو د کمپوټر په مخه کې یووړوکی څراغ شتون لری چې د هارډیسک په نښان سره ښودل شوی. اوس نو کله چې تا سو کوم پروگرام یا پوستکا لی کا روی یعنې د پوستکا لي په کارولو بوخت یا ست او یا مو کوم پوستکالی تا زه چا لان کړۍ تر څو کار ترې واخلۍ په دې دواړو وختونوکې د هارډیسک Activity LED با ید وپړکیږي یا نې Flashing با ید وکړي. مگر که چیرې تاسو په پورتنیو داوړو حا لتونوکې قرار نه لری او بیا موهم د هارډیسک Activity LED په وار وار پړکیږي نو گمان کیږي چې ویروس Replication پیل کړی او دوام لري. په دې حال کې هم دAntivirus دپوستکالي چلول اړین بریښي.
 که چیرې تا سوفکر کوی چې کمپیوټر مو ورځ په ورځ پڅیږي په دې مانا چې که چیرې ستاسو کمپیوټر مخکې په دودقیقو کې Boot کیدلو او اوس ډیر ځنډ با سي تر څو Boot شي او یا هم که چیرې ستا سو د Ms-Word پوستکالی مخکې په یوه دقیقه کې چا لانیدلو او اوس په ډیر ځنډ چا لانیږي نو د ویروس د شتون ډیره کره نښه کیدلای شي نو اړینه ده خپل د Antivirus پوستکا لی وچلوی. دا یوه ډیره کره او ټا کنیزه نښه ده چې ډیر دوستا ن له دې ستونزې څخه ماته شکا یت کوي.
 Hello there,
 My name is Aly and I would like to know if you would have any interest to have your website here at wikipedia.org promoted as a resource on our blog alychidesign.com ? 
 We are in the midst of updating our broken link resources to include current and up to date resources for our readers. Our resource links are manually approved allowing us to mark a link as a do-follow link as well
.
If you may be interested please in being included as a resource on our blog, please let me know.
 Thanks,
Aly
 ډیر هغه پوستکا لي چې د Bugs لرونکي وي کمپیوټر په ټپه دروي همدا راز د Mother Board ا و یا Memory دخرابي له امله هم کمپیوټرپه وار وار په ټپه دریږي او همداراز د ویروس شتون هم کولای شي کمپیوټر په ټپه ودروي. په دې حا لت کې هم خپل د Antivirus پوستکا لی وچلوۍ.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articlwes under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Legal_disclaimer

Content: Wikipedia contains articles on many  ; however,   is made that any of the articles are accurate. There is absolutely no assurance that any statement contained in an article touching on legal matters is true, correct, or precise. Law varies from place-to-place, and it evolves over time—sometimes quite quickly. Even if a statement made about the law is accurate, it may only be accurate in the jurisdiction of the person posting the information; as well, the law may have changed, been modified, or overturned by subsequent development since the entry was made on Wikipedia.
 The legal information provided on Wikipedia is, at best, of a general nature and  , i.e., by a competent authority with specialized knowledge who can apply it to the particular circumstances of your case. Please contact a local  ,  , or similar association of   in your legal   to obtain a referral to a competent legal professional if you do not have other means of contacting an attorney-at-law,  ,  ,  , or  .
 Neither the individual contributors, system operators, developers, nor sponsors of Wikipedia, nor anyone else connected to Wikipedia can take any responsibility for the results or consequences of any attempt to use or adopt any of the information or disinformation presented on this web site.
 


URL: https://li.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Algemein_aafwiezing_aansjpraokelikheid

Content: Dees internet-encyclopedie weurt oeteindelijk gesjreve doer jikkerinne dae mit wil sjrieve. Ondanks dat vriewal jikkerinne dae mithölp korrekte informatie prebiert te versjtrèkke kint d'r gein garantie weure gegaeve betriffende de informatie hie. Jikkerinne dae zichzelf deskundig vink maog de tèks verangere. 'n Dudelike fout zal anger medewerkers waal sjnel opvalle en waarsjienlik weure verbaeterd. De tendens is dat artikele oetgebreider en correcter weure. 
 't Is versjtendeg om veur belangrieke dinger naeve dees encyclopedie auch angere nasjlaagwirke of sjpesjelistiese beuk te laeze.
 As e dinks ein   te zeen, bis e wèlkóm om die metein te verbaetere, of - in geval van twiefel 'n opmerking achter te laote op de   van de betriffende pazjena.
 De vriewilligers die dees encyclopedie sjrieve aanvaarde gein aansjpraokelikheid veur de korrektheid van de gegaeve informatie. Ze kinne zelfs neet garandere dat de auteurs zorgvuldigheid zint gewaes bie 't formulere van de artikele. Gebroek van de informatie is gans vrie, meh dan waal veur eige risico.
 D'r zint gebroekers ( ) die op dees website extra meugelikheid op technisch nivo höbbe. Zoas 't weghaole van pazjena's, beveilige van pazjena's en 't ontnömme van sjriefrechte aan gebroekers. Dit zint meugelijkheid die gewoen gebroekers neet höbbe. Deze groep van vriewilligers zint neet de webmasters mer ieder de conciërges van Wikipedia. 't Is 'n oetveurende functie. 't Dageliks besjtuur van de Limburgse Wikipedia besjtit oet de gemeinsjap van de Limburgse Wikipedia.
 Op juridies vlak is de   de eindverantwoerdelikke.
 Als d'r volgens uch ein probleem is, num dan iesjt contac op mèt de Limburgse Wikipedia. As geer een klach wilt versjture dan is dat auch meugelik, op 't Ingelsj, nao:
 Al 't tekstuele matteriaal op Wikipedia vilt onger de  -licentie. Wèn se sjtuk zuus dat urges angesj vandaan kump (book, website...), zonger permissie van de auteursrechhubbende, mèld 't dan of veranger de tèks zelf.


URL: https://lt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikipedija:Joki%C5%B3_garantij%C5%B3

Content: .


URL: https://km.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E1%9E%9C%E1%9E%B7%E1%9E%82%E1%9E%B8%E1%9E%97%E1%9E%B8%E1%9E%8C%E1%9E%B6:%E1%9E%80%E1%9E%B6%E1%9E%9A%E1%9E%94%E1%9E%8A%E1%9E%B7%E1%9E%9F%E1%9F%81%E1%9E%92_%E1%9E%91%E1%9E%BC%E1%9E%91%E1%9F%85

Content: វិគីភីឌាជាប្រភេទសព្វវចនាធិប្បាយនៅលើបណ្តាញ​អ៊ីនធឺណិតដែលមានការចូលរួមដោយសហគមន៍អ្នកស្ម័គ្រចិត្តជាច្រើនរូប ដើម្បីចូលរួមចំនែកពង្រីក និងចែករំលែកចំនេះដឹងគ្នាទៅវិញតៅមកនៅតាមបណ្តាញអ៊ិនអឺណិត ដែលប្រភពក្នុងការអភិវឌ្ឍន៍ដ៏ចំបងសំរាប់អ្នកប្រើប្រាស់អ៊ីនធឺណិតទូទៅ។ រចនាសំព័ន្ធរបស់គំរោងនេះគឺអនុញ្ញាតអោយ​មនុស្សគ្រប់រូប​ដែលមានបណ្ដាញ​អ៊ីនធឺណិត​ធ្វើការកែប្រែខ្លឹមសារអត្ថបទនានា។ សូមកត់សំគាល់ថា អ្វីៗដែលសរសេរនៅទីនេះ​មិនប្រាកដថា​បានឆ្លងកាត់ការត្រួតពិនិត្យ​ពីអ្នកមានជំនាញត្រឹមត្រូវ ក្នុងការផ្ដល់អោយអ្នក​នូវព័ត៌មានពេញលេញ ត្រឹមត្រូវ និងអាចទុកចិត្តបាន១០០%ទេ។
 នេះមិនមែនមានន័យថា​អ្នកមិនអាចរកបានព័ត៌មាន​មានតំលៃនិងត្រឹមត្រូវសោះនោះទេ។ ភាគច្រើនអ្នកអាចរកបានព័ត៌មាន​មានតំលៃ ប៉ុន្តែ  ។ ខ្លឹមសារអត្ថបទ​ខ្លះត្រូវបានកែប្រែនាពេលថ្មីៗ បំផ្លិចបំផ្លាញ ឬប្ដូរខ្លឹមសារទាំងស្រុង​ដោយនរណាម្នាក់​ដែលមានយោបល់​ខុសពីអ្វីដែលគេសរសេរមុននោះ។
 គេហទំព័រវិគីភីឌានេះមានការធានានិងទំនួលអ្វីទាំងអស់។ អ្នកដែលជាប់ពាក់ពាន់នឹងវិបសាយនេះ(រួមទាំងអ្នកចូលរួមចំនែកទាំងឡាយ) មិនព្រមទទួលខុសត្រូវ និងសូមធ្វើការបដិសេធចំពោះរាល់ការទាមទារអោយទទួលខុសត្រូវរបស់លោកអ្នក។ សូមអ្នកមានទំនួលខុសត្រូវរាល់ការប្រើប្រាស់វិបសាយនេះ ទាំងការមើល ការរួមចំនែក ការយកខ្លឹមសារក្នុងវិបសាយនេះទៅប្រើប្រាស់។
 ​


URL: https://lij.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Avertense_gener%C3%A2li

Content: Avertense generale
-   
-   
-   
-   
 
 
 
A   a l'è un'enciclopedia online a contegnuo averto, fruto do travaggio de 'n insemme de volontai, co-o scopo de svilupâ 'na fonte de conoscença comun e libera. Sciben che gh'é de   e 'n scistema non ofiçiale de gestion anonimo e volontaio, a strutua de l'enciclopedia a permette a chi se sæ de modificâ o contegnuo de so pagine. 
 Pertanto, l'è necesaio tegnî a mente che: 
 
 
 . Sta cösa chi, naturalmente, a no l'inplica a mancança d'informaçioin interesante ò acuræ, ma l'é inportante savei che in sciâ Wikipedia ògni contegnuo o poeu ese modificòu, alteròu ò   da chi se segge. Questo scignifica che ogni dæto o informaçion prezente inte voxe da Wikipedia o poriæ no ritrae adeguatamente l'efetivo stato da conoscença condivisa ò a veitæ di fæti. Quarche ediçioin lengoisteghe da Wikipedia àn adotòu di  , ma senpre in forma volontaia e sença garançia. A cosa ciù vexinn-a a questo scistema de seleçion a l'è l'attuale seçion " ", ma ascì e voxe çitæ in essa porieivan ese stæte modificæ sença o contròllo necesaio. 
 
 
E informaçioin riportæ son fornie in mainea libera e gratoita; nisciun tipo d'acòrdio ò contræto o l'è stipulòu, manco inpliçitamente, tra l'utente e i propietai do scito, i utenti, i propietai di server, i aministratoî do progetto, i aministratoî de scistema ò qualonque atra parte a segge   a-a Wikipedia ò a-i progetti colaterali.
 Qualunque marco registròu, marco de serviçio, marco coletivo, drito de design, drito d'inmaggine, de confidençialitæ ò driti scimili, mençionæ ò dêuviæ inte voxe da Wikipedia, o l'é de propietæ di legittimi detentoî. Tutto o materiale inseio inta Wikipedia o ven pubricou da-i utenti (di quæ l'è conservou l'adresso IP a scopo caotelativo) segondo quante previsto da-e liçençie   e  . A Wikipedia a no poeu garantî che i utenti aggian seguio effettivamente quante previsto da-e liçençie sença lede arcun drito: a responsabilitæ da pubricaçion a l'aresta pertanto escluxiva di utenti. Se no diversamente diciarou, i sciti de Wikipedia e Wikimedia no son ni associæ a, ni approvæ da arcun di detentoî de tæ driti.   e a l'è espressamente vietâ.
 L'è garantio 'na liçençia limitâ de coppia di contegnui (segondo e condiçioin previste da-e liçençie   e  ), ma ciò no crea ni implica arcun-a responsabilitæ contrattuale ò extra-contrattuale da parte da Wikipedia ò de 'n qualunque di so agenti, membri, organizzatoî ò atre parte.
 
 
E informaçioin presente porieivan violâ quarche lezze do loeugo da-o quæ vegnan consurtæ. A Wikipedia a scoragisce a violaçion d'ogni lezze, ma percose e informaçioin son conservæ insce di server sciti in  , inti  , se mantegne comme rifeimento e dispoxiçioin generale stabilie da-o   da   e da-a   de  . E lezze do to paise porieivan no riconosce 'na proteçion do drito de parolla coscì ampia. A Wikipedia a no poeu ese consciderâ responsabile pe 'na qualunque violaçion into caxo, per exempio, se faççe a conescion ò s'adoeuvie un-a de informaçioin inte 'n paise into quæ tâ açion a constitoisce un illeççito.
 
 
Leze ascì i avertençe  ,   e   pe-e liberatoie ò pe de claosole speciffiche d'escluxon de responsabilitæ ( ).
 , percose essa a l'è un'associaçion volontaia d'individdoi solo in parte strutturâ e svilupâ liberamente pe creâ de risorse educative, colturali e informative, online e "averte".   e   circa o so utilizzo ò modiffica, a parte o rispetto de liçençie   e  ; a-o mæximo moddo, nisciun inta Wikipedia l'è responsabile pe-o fæto che chissessæ cange, modifiche ò rimoeuve qualunque informaçion che qualunque atro ò lê mæximo o posse avei inseio inta Wikipedia ò inte un quassessæ di so progetti associæ.
 O contegnuo de sta paggina o s'applica a   presente in Wikipedia.
 Graççie pe-o tempo che t'hæ dedicou a-a lettua de sti avertençe generale: t'aguemo 'na navegaçion utile e piaxeive in sciâ Wikipedia.


URL: https://lb.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: Editeur vun dësem Internetsite ass d' , déi der   kontaktéiere kënnt.


URL: https://pa.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A8%B5%E0%A8%BF%E0%A8%95%E0%A9%80%E0%A8%AA%E0%A9%80%E0%A8%A1%E0%A9%80%E0%A8%86:%E0%A8%86%E0%A8%AE_%E0%A8%85%E0%A8%B8%E0%A8%B5%E0%A9%80%E0%A8%95%E0%A8%BE%E0%A8%B0%E0%A8%A4%E0%A8%BE

Content: 
 
 विकिपीडिया एक वेब आधारित सहयोग-प्राप्त ज्ञानकोश है, अर्थात्, यह मानव ज्ञान का आम संसाधन विकसित करने के लिए व्यक्तियों तथा समूहों का एक स्वैच्छिक संगठन है। इस परियोजना की संरचना अंतर्जाल संयोजन के साथ किसी भी व्यक्ति को इसकी सामग्री परिवर्तित करने की अनुमति देता है। कृपया यह ध्यान रखें कि यह आवश्यक नहीं है कि यहाँ पाई गई सामग्री की विशेषज्ञों द्वारा सही तथा विश्वसनीय जानकारी देने के लिए समीक्षा की गई हो।   ਵਿਕੀਪੀਡੀਆ ਇੱਕ ਵੈੱਬ ਅਧਾਰਿਤ ਸਹਿਜੋਗ ਮਿਲਦੇ ਰਹਿਣ ਉੱਪਰ ਨਿਰਭਰ ਗਿਆਨ ਦਾ ਭੰਡਾਰ ਹੈ,ਜਿਹੜਾ ਕਿ ਆਜ਼ਾਦ ਸੰਗਠਨ ਹੈ ਜੋ ਕਿ ਇਕ ਮਜ਼ਬੂਤ ਅਤੇ ਮਨੁੱਖੀ ਵਰਤੋਂ ਯੋਗ ਸੰਸਾਧਨ ਸਾਬਤ ਹੋਣ ਵਾਸਤੇ ਸਮਰਪਿਤ ਆਮ ਲੋਕ ਜਾਂ ਉਹਨਾਂ ਦੇ ਸਮੂਹ ਦੇ ਯੋਗਦਾਨ ਦੀ ਖਾਹਿਸ਼ ਰੱਖਦਾ ਹੈ । ਇਸ ਪਰਿਯੋਜਨਾ ਦੀ ਬਣਤਰ ਆਪਸੀ ਸਹਿਜੋਗ ਤੇ ਅਧਾਰਿਤ ਹੋਣ ਦੇ ਕਾਰਨ ਇਹ ਹਰੇਕ ਵਿਯਕਤੀ ਨੂੰ ਇਸਨੂੰ ਬਦਲ ਸਕਣ ਦਾ ਹੱਕਦਾਰ ਬਣਾਉਂਦੀ ਹੈ । ਇੱਥੇ ਧਿਆਨ ਦੇਣ ਦੀ ਲੋੜ ਹੈ ਕਿ ਕੋਈ ਜ਼ਰੂਰੀ ਨਹੀਂ ਕਿ ਇਸਦੀ ਸਮੱਗਰੀ ਤਿਆਰ ਕਰਨ ਲਈ ਕਿਸੇ ਮਾਹਿਰ ਜਾਂ ਭਰੋਸੇ ਯੋਗ ਸਰੋਤਾਂ ਦੀ ਜਾਣਕਾਰੀ ਜੁਟਾਈ ਗਈ ਹੋਵੇ।
 इसका यह तात्पर्य नहीं है कि आपको विकिपीडिया पर मूल्यवान तथा सही जानकारी नहीं मिलेगी; अधिकांशतः यह सही ही होगी। हालांकि,   किसी भी लेख की सामग्री को हटाया जा सकता है, उत्पात का शिकार हो सकती है अथवा ऐसे व्यक्ति द्वारा बदली जा सकती है जो उस संगत क्षेत्र में ज्ञान की अवस्था से भिन्न विचार रखता हो। ध्यान दें कि अधिकतर अन्य विकिपीडिया तथा सन्दर्भ कार्यों में भी   होते हैं।
 हम लेखों के विश्वसनीय संस्करण चुनने तथा हाइलाइट करने के तरीकों पर कार्य कर रहे हैं। हमारा सम्पादकों का सक्रिय समुदाय नयी तथा बदलती सामग्री पर निगाह रखने के लिये   तथा   फीड जैसे औजारों का प्रयोग करता है। हालाँकि विकिपीडिया की समीक्षा समान रूप से नहीं की जाती; यद्यपि पाठक गलतियों को सुधार सकते हैं तथा कैजुअल   में शामिल हो सकते हैं तथापि उन्हें ऐसा करने का कोई कानूनी कर्तव्य नहीं है तथा इस प्रकार यहाँ पढ़ी गयी सारी जानकारी किसी उद्देश्य या किसी प्रयोग के लिये बिना किसी क्रियान्वित फिटनेस वारण्टी के है। यहाँ तक कि जो लेख अनौपचारिक पीयर समीक्षा अथवा   प्रक्रिया से गुजरे है बाद में इससे पहले कि आप उन्हें देखें हो सकता है कि वो अनुपयुक्त रूप से सम्पादित किये गये हों।
 
 कृपया यह सुनिश्चित कर लें कि यहाँ उपलब्ध की गयी जानकारी मुक्त रूप से उपलब्ध कराई जा रही है तथा आपके एवं इस साइट के मालिकों या सदस्यों, सर्वर के मालिकों, एकल विकिपीडिया योगदानकर्ता, कोई परियोजना प्रबन्धक, सिस्टम ऑपरेटर या कोई अन्य जो इस परियोजना या इसकी किसी बन्धु परियोजना से   के मध्य आपके किसी प्रकार के दावे हेतु किसी प्रकार का ऍग्रीमेण्ट या अनुबन्ध नहीं हो रहा। आपको इस साइट से कोई सामग्री कॉपी करने हेतु एक सीमित लाइसेंस दिया जा रहा है; यह विकिपीडिया की तरफ से या इसके किसी एजेण्ट, सदस्य किसी अनुबन्धित या अतिरिक्त अनुबन्धित दायित्व को बनाता या क्रियान्वित नहीं करता।
  विकिपीडिया के   (CC-BY-SA) तथा   (GFDL) के अन्तर्गत ही है। इसके अतिरिक्त विकिपीडिया से जुड़ा कोई भी व्यक्ति किसी सामग्री में किसी के द्वारा परिवर्तन, सम्पादन, संशोधन तथा निकाले जाने हेतु जिम्मेदार नहीं होगा।
 कोई भी ट्रेडमार्क, सर्विस मार्क, साँझे/संयुक्त मार्क, डिजाइन अधिकार अथवा इसी प्रकार के अधिकार जो कि विकिपीडिया के लेखों में व्यवस्थित किये जाते हैं, प्रयोग किये जाते हैं अथवा उद्धृत किये जाते हैं वे उनके क्रमशः मालिकों की मिल्कियत हैं। उनके यहाँ प्रयोग का अर्थ यह नहीं है कि आप उनका समान अथवा समान जानकारीपूर्ण प्रयोग के अतिरिक्त अन्य कार्यों हेतु प्रयोग कर सकें जैसा कि इन विकिपीडिया लेखों के मूल लेखकों के द्वारा CC-BY-SA तथा GFDL लाइसेंस स्कीमों में वर्णित है। जब तक अन्यथा न कहा जाय विकिपीडिया तथा विकिमीडिया साइटें न तो इन अधिकारों के मालिकों से किसी प्रकार सम्बद्ध हैं और न ही समर्थित हैं अतः विकिपीडिया किसी अन्य रूप से सुरक्षित सामग्री के प्रयोग हेतु अधिकार प्रदान नहीं कर सकता। आपके द्वारा इस प्रकार या   का उपयोग आपके अपनी जिम्मेदारी पर है।
 विकिपीडिया में ऐसी सामग्री है जिसमें एक पहचान योग्य व्यक्ति को चित्रित किया गया हो जो जीवित या हाल ही में मर चुका हो। जीवित या हालिया मृत व्यक्ति के चित्रों का उपयोग कुछ अधिकार-क्षेत्रों में कॉपीराइट स्थिति के अलावा व्यक्तिगत अधिकारों से सम्बद्ध कानूनों द्वारा प्रतिबन्धित है। इस प्रकार की सामग्री के उपयोग से पहले कृपया यह सुनिश्चित कर लें कि आपको आपके आशयित प्रयोग से सम्बद्ध क्षेत्र में कानूनन इनके प्रयोग का अधिकार हो।  
 विकिपीडिया पर उपलब्ध सामग्री का प्रकाशन आप जिस देश में यह जानकारी देख रहे हैं, उस देश या क्षेत्र के कानून का उल्लंघन हो सकती है। विकिपीडिया डाटाबेस   के   प्रान्त के एक सर्वर में संगृहीत है तथा इसका प्रबन्धन/व्यवस्थापन स्थानीय तथा संघीय कानून में प्रदत्त सुरक्षा सन्दर्भानुसार होता है। आपके देश के कानून इस प्रकार के वक्तत्व्य या वितरण की सुरक्षा या अनुमति शायद न दे सकें। विकिपीडिया किसी कानून के उल्लंघन को प्रोत्साहित नहीं करता तथा इस प्रकार के किसी कानून के उल्लंघन हेतु जिम्मेदार नहीं ठहराया जा सकता चाहे आप इस डोमेन को लिंक कर रहे हों, यहाँ उपलब्ध सामग्री को प्रयोग कर रहे हों, पुनर्निर्मित अथवा पुनर्प्रकाशित कर रहे हों।
 यदि आपको विशिष्ट सलाह (उदाहरण के लिये, चिकित्सकीय, कानूनी, वित्तीय अथवा रिस्क प्रबन्धन आदि) चाहिये तो कृपया किसी व्यावसायिक विशेषज्ञ की सलाह लें जो कि उस क्षेत्र में लाइसेसं प्राप्त अथवा विशेष ज्ञानी हो।


URL: https://hu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:Jogi_nyilatkozat

Content: 
 
 A   nyílt tartalmú online lexikon, vagyis személyek és csoportok szerveződése annak érdekében, hogy az emberi tudás egyetemes gyűjteményét hozzák létre és azt folyamatosan fejlesszék. A felépítése lehetővé teszi bármely internet kapcsolattal és World Wide Web eléréssel rendelkező egyénnek, hogy az itt található tartalmakat tetszőlegesen módosítsa. Ezért mindenképpen vedd figyelembe, hogy semmiféle itt olvasható tartalom nem ment át olyan szaklektoráláson vagy ellenőrzésen, melyet az adott területek szakértői végeztek volna annak érdekében, hogy biztosítsák, hogy az adott szócikkek szakmailag teljes, pontos vagy megbízható információkat tartalmaznak bármilyen, a Wikipédiában olvasható témában.
 Ez egyáltalán nem jelenti azt, hogy a Wikipédia nem értékes, hasznos és pontos információkat tartalmaz, azonban  . Lehetséges, hogy az információt percekkel korábban módosította valaki, akinek a tudása, szándéka vagy véleménye nem esik egybe az adott területen elvárhatóval. Jelenleg is dolgozunk egy olyan megoldáson, ami lehetővé teszi a szócikkek „megbízható változatának” elérését (ez egyelőre nem jelent tartalmi ellenőrzést, csak az úgynevezett   és a nyilvánvalóan értelmetlen tartalom kiszűrését). Az ellenőrzöttséghez legközelebb álló lehetőség jelenleg a   csoportja, de ezeket a szócikkeket sem ellenőrizte független szakértői gárda, és bárki szerkeszthette a közelmúltban úgy, hogy a változtatást érdemben (azaz szakmailag) még senki nem ellenőrizte.
 A Wikipédia nem folyamatosan ellenőrzött kiadvány. Míg bármely résztvevő képes a hibák kijavítására vagy a téves információk eltávolítására, senki nem köteles ezt megtenni, emiatt semmilyen a Wikipédiában található információval kapcsolatban nem vállalunk garanciát, és nem vállaljuk, hogy az információ bármilyen hasznos célra felhasználható volna.
 
 Kérünk, hogy a szükséges körültekintéssel járj el annak érdekében, hogy meggyőződj arról, hogy a Wikipédia cikkek tartalma helyes és megfelel a céljaidnak. Ha bármilyen veszélyes, illegális vagy etikátlan tartalommal találkozol, vedd figyelembe, hogy ezt az információt bárki elhelyezhette a Wikipédián, és semmi garancia nincs arra, hogy megfelelő jogosultságokkal vagy képességekkel rendelkezik arra nézve, hogy a leírt tevékenység vagy dolog használata vagy alkalmazása biztonságos vagy legális, megfelel annak hogy megelőzze a sérülést, betegséget vagy bármilyen személyi, erkölcsi vagy jogi kárt. Ha szakszerű tanácsra van szükséged (például orvosi, jogi, vagy pénzügyi tanácsokra), akkor vedd fel a kapcsolatot az e téren tevékenykedő szakemberekkel.
 A Wikipédia nem vonható felelősségre semmilyen a benne található információ által okozott kárért, mivel ez magánszemélyek önkéntes társasága azon célból, hogy nyílt oktatási, kulturális és információs erőforrást hozzanak létre. Ez a közlés egyoldalú és tájékoztató jellegű, így nem képez szerződést vagy megegyezést közted és a Wikipédia között a   feltételein túl, amennyiben követed az  .
 
 A Wikipédia számos orvostudományi témakörbe tartozó szócikket tartalmaz, de semmiféle garancia sincs arra, hogy ezen szócikkek tartalma pontos. Nincs biztosíték arra sem, hogy az orvostudományi szócikkekben található állítások és kijelentések teljes mértékben igazak, helyesek, vagy precízek. Még ha egy állítás szerint egy gyógymód egy esetre megfelelő, az nem jelenti azt, hogy az Önre vagy az Ön tüneteire érvényes.
 A Wikipédián található orvosi információk legjobb esetben is csak általános tanácsok, mivel nem helyettesítik, és nem is helyettesíthetik az orvosi végzettségű szakértő (orvos, pszichiáter, ápoló, gyógyszerész, stb.) javallatát. A Wikipédia nem orvosi tanácsadó!
 Sem a Wikipedia.org, sem a   nem hozható összefüggésbe orvosi szolgáltatások, szakvélemények stb. ajánlásával vagy felkínálásával. Természetesen támogatjuk Önt abban, hogy közreműködjön az orvostudományi vagy egészséggel kapcsolatos témakörökben, és az itt található anyagokat is felhasználhatja a   licenc szerint.
 
 A Wikipédia számos   cikket tartalmaz, de semmi nem garantálja e cikkek pontosságát. Semmiképpen nem szavatolhatjuk azt, hogy ezen cikkek tartalma jogi szempontból igaz, pontos és helyes. A jogszabályok jelentős része országról országra változik, esetenként igen gyorsan módosulhat. Még ha egy kijelentés a jogszabályokról pontos, akkor is előfordulhat, hogy csak az adott jogi környezetben vagy az információt közlő személy esetében helytálló; lehetséges az is, hogy az információ közlése óta a jogszabályok megváltoztak, módosították őket, hatályon kívül helyezték, esetleg más jogszabályokkal helyettesítették azóta, hogy a közlés a Wikipédiában megjelent.
 A Wikipédiában megjelenő információ a legjobb esetben is általános esetekre vonatkozik és semmiképpen sem helyettesítheti a témában jártas szakértő jogász tanácsát, aki az eset körülményeit pontosan figyelembe véve képes jogi tájékoztatást adni. Az ajánljuk, vedd fel a kapcsolatot jogi szaktanácsadásra szakosodott személlyel vagy céggel annak érdekében, hogy megfelelő jogi tanácsot kaphass.
 Természetesen arra biztatunk, hogy minél több   kapcsolatos szócikket írj, illetve a joggal kapcsolatos szócikkek tartalmát segíts pontosítani és aktualizálni bármilyen Creative Commons Nevezd meg! – Így add tovább! 4.0 licencnek megfelelő anyag felhasználásával.


URL: https://pfl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Impressum

Content: Anbieter vun derre Internetsaite isch d  , aigedrache baim   unna de Numma N03000005323. D Wikimedia Foundation isch e Stiftung noch em Recht vum US-Bunnesstaat Florida. D verantwortlich Ansprechperson un   im Sinn vum   isch zur Zait d  .
 Bai Froche kinnen Ehr aich ach an d aktive Nutza vun de Rheifränkische Wikipedia wenne, zum Baischpiel uf em  .


URL: https://ml.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B4%B5%E0%B4%BF%E0%B4%95%E0%B5%8D%E0%B4%95%E0%B4%BF%E0%B4%AA%E0%B5%80%E0%B4%A1%E0%B4%BF%E0%B4%AF:%E0%B4%AA%E0%B5%8A%E0%B4%A4%E0%B5%81%E0%B4%A8%E0%B4%BF%E0%B4%B0%E0%B4%BE%E0%B4%95%E0%B4%B0%E0%B4%A3%E0%B4%82

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content.  Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
 സ്വതന്ത്ര ഉള്ളടക്കങ്ങളുള്ളതും, ഓൺലൈനിൽ ‍സംയുക്തമായി രചിക്കപ്പെടുന്നതുമായ ഒരു വിജ്ഞാനകോശമാണ് വിക്കിപീഡിയ. അതായത്, മനുഷ്യവിജ്ഞാനത്തിന് ഒരു പൊതുഭണ്ഡാരം സൃഷ്ടിക്കുക എന്ന ഉദ്ദേശത്തോടെ യോജിച്ചു പ്രവർത്തിക്കുന്ന വ്യക്തികളടങ്ങുന്ന സന്നദ്ധസംഘടനയുടെയും കൂട്ടായ്മയുടെയും (പരിശ്രമഫലം)  ആണെന്നർത്ഥം. ഈ സംരംഭത്തിന്റെ ഘടന, ഇന്റർനെറ്റ് സൗകര്യമുള്ള ആർക്കും ഉള്ളടക്കം മാറ്റുന്നതിന് അനുവാദം നൽകുന്നുണ്ട്. (അതുകൊണ്ട്,) ഇവിടെ കാണുന്ന യാതൊന്നും തന്നെ, താങ്കൾക്ക് കൃത്യവും, പൂർണ്ണവും, വിശ്വസനീയവുമായ വിവരങ്ങൾ പ്രദാനം ചെയ്യുന്നവിധം വിദഗ്ദ്ധരായവർ സംശോധന നടത്തിയിട്ടുണ്ടാവണമെന്നില്ല.  
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.  However,    The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.  Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works  .
 എന്നാൽ, ഇവിടെ നിന്ന് നിങ്ങൾക്ക് വിലപ്പെട്ടതും സൂക്ഷമവുമായ വിവരങ്ങൾ ലഭിക്കുകയില്ല എന്ന് അതിനർത്ഥമില്ല; മറിച്ച്, മിക്കസമയവും അതു ലഭിക്കുക തന്നെ ചെയ്യും. എന്നാൽ,  . (ഇവിടുത്തെ) ഏതൊരു കൃതിയും, അതാതു വിജ്ഞാനശാഖകളിൽ നിലവിലുള്ള അറിവുമായി പൊരുത്തപ്പെടുന്നില്ലെന്ന് കരുതുന്ന ഒരാൾ, തൊട്ടുമുൻപ് തിരുത്തുകയോ, മാറ്റുകയോ അല്ലെങ്കിൽ വികൃതമാക്കുകയോ ചെയ്തിട്ടുണ്ടാവാം.  ഇതേ രീതിയിലുള്ള സാധുതാനിരാകരണപ്രസ്താവനകൾ മറ്റു വിജ്ഞാനകോശങ്ങളിലും അവലംബഗ്രന്ഥങ്ങളിലും ചേർക്കുന്നുണ്ടെന്നുകൂടി ശ്രദ്ധിക്കുമല്ലോ.
 
 We are working on ways to select and highlight reliable versions of articles.  Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content.  However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever.  Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 ലേഖനങ്ങളുടെ ഏറ്റവും മെച്ചപ്പെട്ട പതിപ്പുകൾ ഉണ്ടാക്കുവാനും പ്രസിദ്ധീകരിക്കുവാനും ഞങ്ങൾ ശ്രമിച്ചുവരികയാണ്. ഞങ്ങളുടെ സജീവ സംശോധകസമൂഹം,  ,   തുടങ്ങിയ ഉപാധികൾ ഉപയോഗിച്ച്, പുതിയതും മാറ്റപ്പെടുന്നതുമായ ലേഖനങ്ങൾ സദാ നിരീക്ഷിച്ചു വരുന്നുണ്ട്. എന്നാൽ, വിക്കിപീഡിയ (ലേഖനങ്ങളെല്ലാം) ഒരേപോലെ സംശോധന ചെയ്തിട്ടുള്ളവയല്ല.  ലേഖനങ്ങളിലെ പിശകുകൾ തിരുത്തുകയോ, ഇടയ്ക്ക് വായനക്കാർ   ചെയ്യുമെങ്കിലും , അപ്രകാരം ചെയ്യാൻ അവർക്ക് നിയമബാദ്ധ്യതയൊന്നും ഇല്ല; അതിനാൽ, ഇവിടെ വായിക്കാവുന്ന ലേഖനങ്ങൾക്കൊന്നും, ഏതെങ്കിലും ഉപയോഗത്തിനോ, ലക്ഷ്യത്തിനോ യോജിക്കുന്നതാണെന്ന് അപ്രകടിതമായ ഉറപ്പ് ഒന്നും തന്നെ  വാഗ്ദാനം ചെയ്യുന്നില്ല. കൂടാതെ അനൗപചാരികമായി പരിശോധിച്ച് അംഗീകരിച്ച ലേഖനങ്ങളോ   ലേഖനങ്ങൾ ‍പോലുമോ പിന്നീട്,  താങ്കൾ കാണുന്നതിനു തൊട്ടു മുൻപായി, യോജിക്കാത്ത വിധം മാറ്റിയിട്ടുണ്ടാവാം.
 
 
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 ഇവിടെയുള്ള  വിവരങ്ങൾ സൗജന്യമായി നൽകിയിരിക്കുന്നവയാണെന്നും, താങ്കളും, ഈ സൈറ്റിന്റെ ഉടമകളും, ഉപയോക്താക്കളും, ഇതു സൂക്ഷിച്ചിരിക്കുന്ന സെർവറിന്റെ ഉടമകളും, ദാതാക്കളായ വ്യക്തികളും, പദ്ധതിഭരണകർത്താക്കളും, സിസോപ്പുകളും അല്ലെങ്കിൽ ഈ പദ്ധതിയുമായോ, സഹസംരംഭങ്ങളുമായോ   തമ്മിൽ ഏതെങ്കിലും തരത്തിലുള്ള കരാറോ, സമ്മതമോ, ഉണ്ടാക്കിയിട്ടില്ലെന്നും താങ്കളുടെ കഷ്ടനഷ്ടാവകാശങ്ങൾക്ക് നേരിട്ട് ഉത്തരവാദികളോ ആവുന്നില്ലെന്നും താങ്കൾ ശരിയായി മനസ്സിലാക്കുന്നുവെന്ന് ഉറപ്പാക്കണം. താങ്കൾക്ക്, ഈ സൈറ്റിൽ നിന്ന് പകർപ്പെടുക്കുവാനുള്ള പരിമിതാനുമതി മാത്രമേ നൽകുന്നുള്ളൂ, അത്, വിക്കിപീഡിയക്കോ, അതിന്റെ പ്രതിനിധികൾക്കോ, അംഗങ്ങൾക്കോ, സംഘാടകർക്കോ മറ്റുപയോക്താക്കൾക്കോ ഏതെങ്കിലും തരത്തിൽ കരാർ പ്രകാരമോ കരാറിനപ്പുറത്തോ ഉള്ള ബാദ്ധ്യത സൃഷ്ടിക്കുന്നില്ല.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC-BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 ക്രിയേറ്റീവ് കോമൺസ് ആട്രിബ്യൂഷൻ ഷെയർ-എലൈക് 3.0 അൺപോർട്ടെഡ് ലൈസൻസ്  (  (CC-BY-SA)),  (    എന്നിവയ്ക്കുപരി, ഇവിടെയുള്ള വിവരങ്ങൾ താങ്കൾ ഉപയോഗിക്കുന്നതോ, പരിഷ്കരിക്കുന്നതോ സംബന്ധിച്ച്,  ; കൂടാതെ, താങ്കൾ വിക്കിപീഡിയയിലോ അതിന്റെ മറ്റു സഹസംരംഭങ്ങളിലോ ചേർക്കുന്ന എതെങ്കിലും വിവരം മറ്റാളുകൾ മാറ്റുന്നതിലോ, തിരുത്തുന്നതിലോ, പരിഷ്കരിക്കുന്നതിലോ, വിക്കിപീഡിയയിലെ ആർക്കും ഉത്തരവാദിത്തം ഉണ്ടായിരിയ്ക്കുന്നതുമല്ല.
 
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 വിക്കിപീഡിയയിലെ ലേഖനങ്ങളിൽ പ്രതിപാദിച്ചിരിക്കുന്നതോ ഉപയോഗിച്ചിരിക്കുനതോ അല്ലെങ്കിൽ സൂചിപ്പിച്ചിരിക്കുന്നതോ ആയ വാണിജ്യചിഹ്നങ്ങൾ, സേവനചിഹ്നങ്ങൾ  , സംഘടനാചിഹ്നങ്ങൾ  ‍, രൂപകല്പനാവകാശങ്ങൾ, വ്യക്തിഗത അവകാശങ്ങൾ അല്ലെങ്കിൽ സമാനമായ അവകാശങ്ങൾ തുടങ്ങിയവ അതാത് ഉടമകളുടെ സ്വന്തമാണ്. അവ ഇവിടെ ഉപയോഗിച്ചിരിക്കുന്നതുകൊണ്ട്, താങ്കൾക്ക് അത്, CC-BY-SA, ഗ്നൂ  എന്നീ അനുമതി സമ്പ്രദായങ്ങൾക്കു കീഴിൽ എഴുതിയ വിക്കിപീഡിയ ലേഖനത്തിന്റെ ലേഖകർ ഉദ്ദേശിച്ച അതേ അനൗപചാരിക ഉപയോഗത്തിനോ, സമാന ഉപയോഗത്തിനോ അല്ലാതെ മറ്റുകാര്യങ്ങൾക്ക് ഉപയോഗിക്കാമെന്ന്  അർത്ഥമില്ല. മറിച്ച് എവിടെയെങ്കിലും പറഞ്ഞിട്ടില്ലെങ്കിൽ, വിക്കിപീഡിയ, വിക്കിമീഡിയ സൈറ്റുകൾക്ക് അത്തരം അവകാശികളുമായി ധാരണയോ ബന്ധങ്ങളോ ഇല്ല; അതുകൊണ്ട്, ഏതെങ്കിലും തരത്തിൽ പകർപ്പവകാശസംരക്ഷണമുള്ള കാര്യങ്ങളുടെ അവകാശം കൈമാറാൻ കഴിയില്ല. അത്തരം ഏതെങ്കിലും അമൂർത്ത വസ്തുക്കളോ സമാനസംജ്ഞകളോ താങ്കൾ ഉപയോഗിക്കുന്നത്, താങ്കളുടെ സ്വന്തം ഉത്തരവാദിത്തത്തിലായിരിക്കും.
 
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce or republish the information contained herein.
 വിക്കിപീഡിയയിൽ കാണുന്ന വിവരങ്ങൾ പ്രസിദ്ധീകരിക്കുന്നത് താങ്കൾ ഈ വിവരങ്ങൾ നോക്കുന്ന സ്ഥലത്തെ അല്ലെങ്കിൽ നിയമമേഖലയിലെ  നിയമമോ ലംഘിക്കുന്നത് ആയിരിക്കാം. വിക്കിപ്പിഡിയയിലെ വിവരസമാഹാരം സൂക്ഷിച്ചിരിക്കുന്നത്,   സ്ഥാപിച്ചിരിക്കുന്ന സേർവറുകളിലാണ്, അത് അന്നാട്ടിലെ  തദ്ദേശ-കേന്ദ്ര ഭരണകൂടനിയമങ്ങൾ അനുസരിച്ചു സൂക്ഷിക്കപ്പെട്ടിട്ടുള്ളവയാണ്.  താങ്കളുടെ രാജ്യത്തെയോ  നിയമമേഖലയിലെ‍യോ നിയമങ്ങൾ, സമാനമായ  അഭിപ്രായപ്രകടനമോ വിതരണസ്വാതന്ത്ര്യമോ അനുവദിക്കുന്നില്ലെന്നു വരാം. വിക്കിപീഡിയ, യാതൊരു തരത്തിലും നിയമലംഘനം പ്രോത്സാഹിപ്പിക്കുന്നില്ല; മാത്രവുമല്ല, താങ്കൾ, ഈ സൈറ്റിലേക്കു കണ്ണി നൽകുകയോ, ഉപയോഗിക്കുകയോ, പുനർനിർമ്മിക്കുകയോ, ഇവിടെയുള്ള വിവരങ്ങൾ പുനഃപ്രസിദ്ധീകരിക്കുകയോ ചെയ്യുമ്പോൾ സംഭവിക്കുന്ന അത്തരം നിയമലംഘനങ്ങൾക്ക് വിക്കിപീഡിയ ഉത്തരവാദിയായിരിക്കുന്നതുമല്ല.
 
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.
 താങ്കൾക്ക് ഏതെങ്കിലും കാര്യത്തിൽ ഉപദേശങ്ങൾ ആവശ്യമുണ്ടെങ്കിൽ‍ (ഉദാഹരണത്തിന്, വൈദ്യോപദേശമോ, നിയമോപദേശമോ, സാമ്പത്തികോപദേശമോ അല്ലെങ്കിൽ നഷ്ടസാദ്ധ്യതാ ഉപദേശമോ), ദയവായി (അപ്രകാരം ഉപദേശങ്ങൾ നൽകുവാൻ) നിയമപരമായ അധികാരമുള്ളവരേയോ, അതാതു രംഗത്തെ വിദഗ്ദ്ധരേയോ, സമീപിക്കണം.


URL: https://ln.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Boyanoli_ndelo

Content: 
 Wikipedia ekomámí na bato baye balingí kosálisa, baye bazalí basáli tɛ́, bazwí mosɔ́lɔ́ tɛ́. Bakokí kokoma nkomá ya bosɔ̂lɔ́ kasi mpé bakokí komíkósa mpé kosála zíko.


URL: https://ln.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Boyanoli_ndelo

Content: 
 Wikipedia ekomámí na bato baye balingí kosálisa, baye bazalí basáli tɛ́, bazwí mosɔ́lɔ́ tɛ́. Bakokí kokoma nkomá ya bosɔ̂lɔ́ kasi mpé bakokí komíkósa mpé kosála zíko.


URL: https://ml.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B4%B5%E0%B4%BF%E0%B4%95%E0%B5%8D%E0%B4%95%E0%B4%BF%E0%B4%AA%E0%B5%80%E0%B4%A1%E0%B4%BF%E0%B4%AF:%E0%B4%AA%E0%B5%8A%E0%B4%A4%E0%B5%81%E0%B4%A8%E0%B4%BF%E0%B4%B0%E0%B4%BE%E0%B4%95%E0%B4%B0%E0%B4%A3%E0%B4%82

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content.  Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
 സ്വതന്ത്ര ഉള്ളടക്കങ്ങളുള്ളതും, ഓൺലൈനിൽ ‍സംയുക്തമായി രചിക്കപ്പെടുന്നതുമായ ഒരു വിജ്ഞാനകോശമാണ് വിക്കിപീഡിയ. അതായത്, മനുഷ്യവിജ്ഞാനത്തിന് ഒരു പൊതുഭണ്ഡാരം സൃഷ്ടിക്കുക എന്ന ഉദ്ദേശത്തോടെ യോജിച്ചു പ്രവർത്തിക്കുന്ന വ്യക്തികളടങ്ങുന്ന സന്നദ്ധസംഘടനയുടെയും കൂട്ടായ്മയുടെയും (പരിശ്രമഫലം)  ആണെന്നർത്ഥം. ഈ സംരംഭത്തിന്റെ ഘടന, ഇന്റർനെറ്റ് സൗകര്യമുള്ള ആർക്കും ഉള്ളടക്കം മാറ്റുന്നതിന് അനുവാദം നൽകുന്നുണ്ട്. (അതുകൊണ്ട്,) ഇവിടെ കാണുന്ന യാതൊന്നും തന്നെ, താങ്കൾക്ക് കൃത്യവും, പൂർണ്ണവും, വിശ്വസനീയവുമായ വിവരങ്ങൾ പ്രദാനം ചെയ്യുന്നവിധം വിദഗ്ദ്ധരായവർ സംശോധന നടത്തിയിട്ടുണ്ടാവണമെന്നില്ല.  
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.  However,    The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.  Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works  .
 എന്നാൽ, ഇവിടെ നിന്ന് നിങ്ങൾക്ക് വിലപ്പെട്ടതും സൂക്ഷമവുമായ വിവരങ്ങൾ ലഭിക്കുകയില്ല എന്ന് അതിനർത്ഥമില്ല; മറിച്ച്, മിക്കസമയവും അതു ലഭിക്കുക തന്നെ ചെയ്യും. എന്നാൽ,  . (ഇവിടുത്തെ) ഏതൊരു കൃതിയും, അതാതു വിജ്ഞാനശാഖകളിൽ നിലവിലുള്ള അറിവുമായി പൊരുത്തപ്പെടുന്നില്ലെന്ന് കരുതുന്ന ഒരാൾ, തൊട്ടുമുൻപ് തിരുത്തുകയോ, മാറ്റുകയോ അല്ലെങ്കിൽ വികൃതമാക്കുകയോ ചെയ്തിട്ടുണ്ടാവാം.  ഇതേ രീതിയിലുള്ള സാധുതാനിരാകരണപ്രസ്താവനകൾ മറ്റു വിജ്ഞാനകോശങ്ങളിലും അവലംബഗ്രന്ഥങ്ങളിലും ചേർക്കുന്നുണ്ടെന്നുകൂടി ശ്രദ്ധിക്കുമല്ലോ.
 
 We are working on ways to select and highlight reliable versions of articles.  Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content.  However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever.  Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 ലേഖനങ്ങളുടെ ഏറ്റവും മെച്ചപ്പെട്ട പതിപ്പുകൾ ഉണ്ടാക്കുവാനും പ്രസിദ്ധീകരിക്കുവാനും ഞങ്ങൾ ശ്രമിച്ചുവരികയാണ്. ഞങ്ങളുടെ സജീവ സംശോധകസമൂഹം,  ,   തുടങ്ങിയ ഉപാധികൾ ഉപയോഗിച്ച്, പുതിയതും മാറ്റപ്പെടുന്നതുമായ ലേഖനങ്ങൾ സദാ നിരീക്ഷിച്ചു വരുന്നുണ്ട്. എന്നാൽ, വിക്കിപീഡിയ (ലേഖനങ്ങളെല്ലാം) ഒരേപോലെ സംശോധന ചെയ്തിട്ടുള്ളവയല്ല.  ലേഖനങ്ങളിലെ പിശകുകൾ തിരുത്തുകയോ, ഇടയ്ക്ക് വായനക്കാർ   ചെയ്യുമെങ്കിലും , അപ്രകാരം ചെയ്യാൻ അവർക്ക് നിയമബാദ്ധ്യതയൊന്നും ഇല്ല; അതിനാൽ, ഇവിടെ വായിക്കാവുന്ന ലേഖനങ്ങൾക്കൊന്നും, ഏതെങ്കിലും ഉപയോഗത്തിനോ, ലക്ഷ്യത്തിനോ യോജിക്കുന്നതാണെന്ന് അപ്രകടിതമായ ഉറപ്പ് ഒന്നും തന്നെ  വാഗ്ദാനം ചെയ്യുന്നില്ല. കൂടാതെ അനൗപചാരികമായി പരിശോധിച്ച് അംഗീകരിച്ച ലേഖനങ്ങളോ   ലേഖനങ്ങൾ ‍പോലുമോ പിന്നീട്,  താങ്കൾ കാണുന്നതിനു തൊട്ടു മുൻപായി, യോജിക്കാത്ത വിധം മാറ്റിയിട്ടുണ്ടാവാം.
 
 
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 ഇവിടെയുള്ള  വിവരങ്ങൾ സൗജന്യമായി നൽകിയിരിക്കുന്നവയാണെന്നും, താങ്കളും, ഈ സൈറ്റിന്റെ ഉടമകളും, ഉപയോക്താക്കളും, ഇതു സൂക്ഷിച്ചിരിക്കുന്ന സെർവറിന്റെ ഉടമകളും, ദാതാക്കളായ വ്യക്തികളും, പദ്ധതിഭരണകർത്താക്കളും, സിസോപ്പുകളും അല്ലെങ്കിൽ ഈ പദ്ധതിയുമായോ, സഹസംരംഭങ്ങളുമായോ   തമ്മിൽ ഏതെങ്കിലും തരത്തിലുള്ള കരാറോ, സമ്മതമോ, ഉണ്ടാക്കിയിട്ടില്ലെന്നും താങ്കളുടെ കഷ്ടനഷ്ടാവകാശങ്ങൾക്ക് നേരിട്ട് ഉത്തരവാദികളോ ആവുന്നില്ലെന്നും താങ്കൾ ശരിയായി മനസ്സിലാക്കുന്നുവെന്ന് ഉറപ്പാക്കണം. താങ്കൾക്ക്, ഈ സൈറ്റിൽ നിന്ന് പകർപ്പെടുക്കുവാനുള്ള പരിമിതാനുമതി മാത്രമേ നൽകുന്നുള്ളൂ, അത്, വിക്കിപീഡിയക്കോ, അതിന്റെ പ്രതിനിധികൾക്കോ, അംഗങ്ങൾക്കോ, സംഘാടകർക്കോ മറ്റുപയോക്താക്കൾക്കോ ഏതെങ്കിലും തരത്തിൽ കരാർ പ്രകാരമോ കരാറിനപ്പുറത്തോ ഉള്ള ബാദ്ധ്യത സൃഷ്ടിക്കുന്നില്ല.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC-BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 ക്രിയേറ്റീവ് കോമൺസ് ആട്രിബ്യൂഷൻ ഷെയർ-എലൈക് 3.0 അൺപോർട്ടെഡ് ലൈസൻസ്  (  (CC-BY-SA)),  (    എന്നിവയ്ക്കുപരി, ഇവിടെയുള്ള വിവരങ്ങൾ താങ്കൾ ഉപയോഗിക്കുന്നതോ, പരിഷ്കരിക്കുന്നതോ സംബന്ധിച്ച്,  ; കൂടാതെ, താങ്കൾ വിക്കിപീഡിയയിലോ അതിന്റെ മറ്റു സഹസംരംഭങ്ങളിലോ ചേർക്കുന്ന എതെങ്കിലും വിവരം മറ്റാളുകൾ മാറ്റുന്നതിലോ, തിരുത്തുന്നതിലോ, പരിഷ്കരിക്കുന്നതിലോ, വിക്കിപീഡിയയിലെ ആർക്കും ഉത്തരവാദിത്തം ഉണ്ടായിരിയ്ക്കുന്നതുമല്ല.
 
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 വിക്കിപീഡിയയിലെ ലേഖനങ്ങളിൽ പ്രതിപാദിച്ചിരിക്കുന്നതോ ഉപയോഗിച്ചിരിക്കുനതോ അല്ലെങ്കിൽ സൂചിപ്പിച്ചിരിക്കുന്നതോ ആയ വാണിജ്യചിഹ്നങ്ങൾ, സേവനചിഹ്നങ്ങൾ  , സംഘടനാചിഹ്നങ്ങൾ  ‍, രൂപകല്പനാവകാശങ്ങൾ, വ്യക്തിഗത അവകാശങ്ങൾ അല്ലെങ്കിൽ സമാനമായ അവകാശങ്ങൾ തുടങ്ങിയവ അതാത് ഉടമകളുടെ സ്വന്തമാണ്. അവ ഇവിടെ ഉപയോഗിച്ചിരിക്കുന്നതുകൊണ്ട്, താങ്കൾക്ക് അത്, CC-BY-SA, ഗ്നൂ  എന്നീ അനുമതി സമ്പ്രദായങ്ങൾക്കു കീഴിൽ എഴുതിയ വിക്കിപീഡിയ ലേഖനത്തിന്റെ ലേഖകർ ഉദ്ദേശിച്ച അതേ അനൗപചാരിക ഉപയോഗത്തിനോ, സമാന ഉപയോഗത്തിനോ അല്ലാതെ മറ്റുകാര്യങ്ങൾക്ക് ഉപയോഗിക്കാമെന്ന്  അർത്ഥമില്ല. മറിച്ച് എവിടെയെങ്കിലും പറഞ്ഞിട്ടില്ലെങ്കിൽ, വിക്കിപീഡിയ, വിക്കിമീഡിയ സൈറ്റുകൾക്ക് അത്തരം അവകാശികളുമായി ധാരണയോ ബന്ധങ്ങളോ ഇല്ല; അതുകൊണ്ട്, ഏതെങ്കിലും തരത്തിൽ പകർപ്പവകാശസംരക്ഷണമുള്ള കാര്യങ്ങളുടെ അവകാശം കൈമാറാൻ കഴിയില്ല. അത്തരം ഏതെങ്കിലും അമൂർത്ത വസ്തുക്കളോ സമാനസംജ്ഞകളോ താങ്കൾ ഉപയോഗിക്കുന്നത്, താങ്കളുടെ സ്വന്തം ഉത്തരവാദിത്തത്തിലായിരിക്കും.
 
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce or republish the information contained herein.
 വിക്കിപീഡിയയിൽ കാണുന്ന വിവരങ്ങൾ പ്രസിദ്ധീകരിക്കുന്നത് താങ്കൾ ഈ വിവരങ്ങൾ നോക്കുന്ന സ്ഥലത്തെ അല്ലെങ്കിൽ നിയമമേഖലയിലെ  നിയമമോ ലംഘിക്കുന്നത് ആയിരിക്കാം. വിക്കിപ്പിഡിയയിലെ വിവരസമാഹാരം സൂക്ഷിച്ചിരിക്കുന്നത്,   സ്ഥാപിച്ചിരിക്കുന്ന സേർവറുകളിലാണ്, അത് അന്നാട്ടിലെ  തദ്ദേശ-കേന്ദ്ര ഭരണകൂടനിയമങ്ങൾ അനുസരിച്ചു സൂക്ഷിക്കപ്പെട്ടിട്ടുള്ളവയാണ്.  താങ്കളുടെ രാജ്യത്തെയോ  നിയമമേഖലയിലെ‍യോ നിയമങ്ങൾ, സമാനമായ  അഭിപ്രായപ്രകടനമോ വിതരണസ്വാതന്ത്ര്യമോ അനുവദിക്കുന്നില്ലെന്നു വരാം. വിക്കിപീഡിയ, യാതൊരു തരത്തിലും നിയമലംഘനം പ്രോത്സാഹിപ്പിക്കുന്നില്ല; മാത്രവുമല്ല, താങ്കൾ, ഈ സൈറ്റിലേക്കു കണ്ണി നൽകുകയോ, ഉപയോഗിക്കുകയോ, പുനർനിർമ്മിക്കുകയോ, ഇവിടെയുള്ള വിവരങ്ങൾ പുനഃപ്രസിദ്ധീകരിക്കുകയോ ചെയ്യുമ്പോൾ സംഭവിക്കുന്ന അത്തരം നിയമലംഘനങ്ങൾക്ക് വിക്കിപീഡിയ ഉത്തരവാദിയായിരിക്കുന്നതുമല്ല.
 
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.
 താങ്കൾക്ക് ഏതെങ്കിലും കാര്യത്തിൽ ഉപദേശങ്ങൾ ആവശ്യമുണ്ടെങ്കിൽ‍ (ഉദാഹരണത്തിന്, വൈദ്യോപദേശമോ, നിയമോപദേശമോ, സാമ്പത്തികോപദേശമോ അല്ലെങ്കിൽ നഷ്ടസാദ്ധ്യതാ ഉപദേശമോ), ദയവായി (അപ്രകാരം ഉപദേശങ്ങൾ നൽകുവാൻ) നിയമപരമായ അധികാരമുള്ളവരേയോ, അതാതു രംഗത്തെ വിദഗ്ദ്ധരേയോ, സമീപിക്കണം.


URL: https://or.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%AC%89%E0%AC%87%E0%AC%95%E0%AC%BF%E0%AC%AA%E0%AC%BF%E0%AC%A1%E0%AC%BC%E0%AC%BF%E0%AC%86:%E0%AC%86%E0%AC%AE%E0%AD%87_%E0%AC%A6%E0%AC%BE%E0%AD%9F%E0%AD%80_%E0%AC%A8%E0%AD%8B%E0%AC%B9%E0%AD%81%E0%AC%81

Content: Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content.  Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.  However,    The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.  Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works also have  .
 We are working on ways to select and highlight reliable versions of articles.  Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content.  However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever.  Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC-BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or deceased recently.  The use of images of living or recently deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.   
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://lt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikipedija:Joki%C5%B3_garantij%C5%B3

Content: .


URL: https://uz.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikipediya:Mas%CA%BCuliyatdan_voz_kechish

Content:  — bu  - , yaʼni undagi maʼlumotlarni internetga ulangan  . Shuni nazarda tutingki, bu yerda joylashtirilgan maʼlumotlar aniq va ishonchli ekanligiga kafolat berilmaydi, chunki ular soha mutaxassislari tomonidan tekshirib chiqilmagan boʻlishi mumkin.
 Vikipediyaga aloqador boʻlgan hech bir shaxs lohiya sahifalarida xato yoki yolgʻon maʼlumotlar paydo boʻlmasligiga masʼul emas.
 Agar sizga tibbiyot, huquqshunoslik, moliya sohalari boʻyicha mutaxassis maslahati kerak boʻlsa, iltimos, tegishli litsenziya va bilimga ega professionallarga murojaat qiling.


URL: https://lv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikip%C4%93dija:Saist%C4%ABbu_atrunas

Content:  ir interneta enciklopēdija ar brīvu, pašu dalībnieku veidotu saturu. Šo saturu var izmainīt jebkurš, kam pieejams  . Vikipēdijas rakstus veido, papildina un uzrauga cilvēki, kas pārsvarā nav profesionāļi attiecīgajās jomās un dara to pilnīgi brīvprātīgi bez jebkādas atlīdzības. Kaut arī mēs cenšamies ievietotos tekstus kontrolēt un pārbaudīt, tomēr jums jāņem vērā, ka šeit atrodamā informācija var būt nepilnīga, nepareiza vai neprecīza, un neviens no Vikipēdijas autoriem nevar garantēt rakstu patiesumu vai jebkādā veidā būt atbildīgs par sekām, kādas radušās, pielietojot informāciju, kas atrodama rakstos vai tajos esošajās ārējās saitēs. Mūsu lielākais sasniegums ir   un  , tomēr pat tie var būt tikuši izmainīti īsi pirms jūs tos lasāt.
 


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Content_disclaimer

Content: In its encyclopedic function, Wikipedia contains millions of   on a vast array of topics. A relatively small fraction of these topics are frequently censored by educational, governmental, corporate, parental, and other filtering schemes.
 Wikipedia's current policy is to include such content, provided it breaches neither any of our existing   (especially  ) nor the laws of the  , where Wikipedia is hosted. See   for some examples of articles that may contain such content. None of these articles contain warnings.
 In any case, Wikipedia is a work in progress, and many articles contain  ,  , or  , or may simply need  . We encourage readers to help us fix these problems.  The great majority of articles are written primarily or solely by individuals who are not subject matter experts, and may lack academic or professional credentials in the area.  
 Wikipedia contains obscure information that would not be covered in a conventional encyclopedia. Wikipedia's coverage is based on the interests of its volunteer contributors.  Readers should not judge the importance of topics based on their coverage in Wikipedia, nor assume that a topic is important merely because it is the subject of a Wikipedia article. 
 See also:  .


URL: https://lb.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: Editeur vun dësem Internetsite ass d' , déi der   kontaktéiere kënnt.


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:File_upload_wizard

Content: Thank you for offering to contribute an image or other media file for use on Wikipedia. This wizard will guide you through a questionnaire prompting you for the appropriate copyright and sourcing information for each file. Please ensure you understand   and the   before proceeding.
 
 Uploads to  
 
 
 Uploads locally to Wikipedia; must comply with the   criteria
 
 
 Sorry, in order to use this uploading script, JavaScript must be enabled. You can still use the plain   page to upload files to the English Wikipedia without JavaScript.
 
 Sorry, in order to use this uploading script and to upload files, you need to be logged in with your named account. Please   and then try again.
 
 Sorry, in order to upload files on the English Wikipedia, you need to have a  . Normally, your account will become confirmed automatically once you have made 10 edits and four days have passed since you created it.     
 You may already be able to upload files on the  , but you can't do it on the English Wikipedia just yet. If the file you want to upload has a free license, please go to Commons and upload it there.
  if you don't want to wait until you are autoconfirmed, you may ask somebody else to upload a file for you at  . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sorry, a few special characters and character combinations cannot be used in the filename for technical reasons. This goes especially for   and  . Your filename has been modified to avoid these. Please check if it is okay now.
 The filename you chose seems to be very short, or overly generic. Please don't use:
 
 If you upload your file with this name, you will be masking the existing file and make it inaccessible. Your new file will be displayed everywhere the existing file was previously used.
 This should not be done, except in very rare exceptional cases.
 Please don't upload your file under this name, unless you seriously know what you are doing. Choose a different name for your new file instead.
 
 If you upload your file with this name, you will be overwriting the existing file. Your new file will be displayed everywhere the existing file was previously used. Please don't do this, unless you have a good reason to:
 It is very important that you read through the following options and questions, and provide all required information truthfully and carefully. 
 Wikipedia loves free files. However, we would love it even more if you uploaded them on our sister project, the  .
Files uploaded on Commons can be used immediately here on Wikipedia as well as on all its sister projects. Uploading files on Commons works just the same as here. Your Wikipedia account will automatically work on Commons too. 
   
 However, if you prefer to do it here instead, you may go ahead with this form. You can also first use this form to collect the information about your file and then send it to Commons from here.
 Please note that by "entirely self-made" we really mean just that. 
  use this section for any of the following:
 Editors who falsely declare such items as their "own work"  .
 Use this   if there is an   in the source. 
 The website must explicitly say that the image is released under a license that allows free re-use for any purpose, e.g. the Creative Commons Attribution license. You must be able to point exactly to where it says this.
 If the source website doesn't say so explicitly, please  .
  means that nobody owns any copyrights on this work. It does   mean simply that it is freely viewable somewhere on the web or that it has been widely used by others. 
 This is   for images you simply found somewhere on the web. Most images on the web are under copyright and belong to somebody, even if you believe the owner won't care about that copyright. If it is in the public domain, you must be able to point to an actual law that makes it so. If you can't point to such a law but merely found this image somewhere, then  
  Please remember that you will need to demonstrate that:
 This file will be used in the following article:
 
    – article okay.
   
 The article   could not be found.
 Please check the spelling, and make sure you enter the name of an existing article in which you will include this file.
 If this is an article you are only planning to write, please write it first and upload the file afterwards.
   
 The page   is not in the main article namespace. Non-free files can only be used in mainspace article pages, not on a user page, talk page, template, etc.
 Please upload this file only if it is going to be used in an actual article.
 If this page is an article draft in your user space, we're sorry, but we must ask you to wait until the page is ready and has been moved into mainspace, and only upload the file after that.
   
 The page   is not a real article, but a disambiguation page pointing to a number of other pages.
 Please check and enter the exact title of the actual target article you meant.
 If neither of these two statements applies, then please  
 This section is   for images used merely to illustrate an article about a person or thing, showing what that person or thing look like.
 In view of this, please explain how the use of this file will be minimal.
 Well, we're very sorry, but if you're not sure about this file's copyright status, or if it doesn't fit into any of the groups above, then:
 
 Really, please don't. Even if you think it would make for a great addition to an article. We really take these copyright rules very seriously on Wikipedia. Note that media is   to be fully-copyrighted unless shown otherwise; the burden is on the uploader.
 In particular, please don't upload:
 If you are in any doubt, please ask some experienced editors for advice before uploading. People will be happy to assist you at  . Thank you.
 This is the data that will be submitted to upload:
 
 
 
 Your file is being uploaded. 
 This might take a minute or two, depending on the size of the file and the speed of your internet connection.
 Once uploading is completed, you will find your new file at this link:
 
 Your file has been uploaded successfully and can now be found here:
 
 Please follow the link and check that the image description page has all the information you meant to include.
 If you want to change the description, just go to the image page, click the "edit" tab at the top of the page and edit just as you would edit any other page. Do not go through this upload form again, unless you want to replace the actual file with a new version.
 To insert this file into an article, you may want to use code similar to the following:
 If you wish to make a link to the file in text, without actually showing the image, for instance when discussing the image on a talk page, you can use the following (mark the ":" after the initial brackets!):
 See   for more detailed help on how to insert and position images in pages.
 Please leave your feedback, comments, bug reports or suggestions on the  .
 


URL: https://lv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikip%C4%93dija:Saist%C4%ABbu_atrunas

Content:  ir interneta enciklopēdija ar brīvu, pašu dalībnieku veidotu saturu. Šo saturu var izmainīt jebkurš, kam pieejams  . Vikipēdijas rakstus veido, papildina un uzrauga cilvēki, kas pārsvarā nav profesionāļi attiecīgajās jomās un dara to pilnīgi brīvprātīgi bez jebkādas atlīdzības. Kaut arī mēs cenšamies ievietotos tekstus kontrolēt un pārbaudīt, tomēr jums jāņem vērā, ka šeit atrodamā informācija var būt nepilnīga, nepareiza vai neprecīza, un neviens no Vikipēdijas autoriem nevar garantēt rakstu patiesumu vai jebkādā veidā būt atbildīgs par sekām, kādas radušās, pielietojot informāciju, kas atrodama rakstos vai tajos esošajās ārējās saitēs. Mūsu lielākais sasniegums ir   un  , tomēr pat tie var būt tikuši izmainīti īsi pirms jūs tos lasāt.
 


URL: https://nn.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Atterhald

Content: Nynorsk Wikipedia er eit oppslagsverk som ligg tilgjengeleg på Internett. Innhaldet er ope, noko som vil seie at det blir skapt av ei frivillig samanslutning av einskildpersonar og -grupper, som utviklar ein felles ressurs av menneskeleg kunnskap. 
 Prosjektreglane tillèt kvar og ein med internettsamband og ein nettlesar å endre på innhaldet som finst her. Difor er det som står i Wikipedia ikkje nødvendigvis gjennomgått av profesjonelle med spesialkunnskap innanfor dei ulike områda, som er naudsynt for å sikre fullstendige, presise og pålitelege opplysingar.
 Ingen av forfattarane, bidragsytarane, sponsorane, administratorane, systemoperatørane eller nokre andre med tilknyting til Wikipedia kan gjerast ansvarleg for at det finst unøyaktig informasjon, eller for andre sin bruk av dei opplysningane som ligg på desse nettsidene eller som blir nådd via lenkjer derfrå.
 Dei som har behov for presis rådgjeving – til dømes medisinsk, juridisk eller økonomisk – er bedne om å oppsøkja ein kunnig som har rett til å drive ei verksemd eller som har spesialkunnskap på det relevante fagområdet.
 Ver venleg å sørgje for at du forstår at opplysningane her er stilte gratis til rådvelde for frivillig bruk, og at inga form for avtale eller kontrakt er oppretta mellom deg og korkje eigarar eller andre brukarar av denne nettstaden, eigarane av lagringsplassen der innhaldet ligg, den einskilde Wikipedia-bidragsytaren, prosjektadministratoren, systemoperatøren eller nokon annan person i tilslutning til dette prosjektet eller systerprosjekt som kan gje grunnlag for å rette krav mot dei. Du blir tildelt eit avgrensa bruksløyve til å kopiere kva som helst av innhald frå denne nettstaden, men det skaper ikkje og impliserer ikkje noko kontraktsmessig eller utanomkontraktsleg ansvar for Wikipedia eller nokre av representantane deira, medlemmer, organisatorar eller andre brukarar.
 Det finst ingen avtale eller forståing mellom deg og Wikipedia kring bruk av innhaldet eller endring av innhaldet utover    og   (GFDL),  på same viset er det ingen knytt til Wikipedia som kan stillast til ansvar viss nokon har endra, redigert eller fjerna informasjon som du har lagt inn i Wikipedia.


URL: https://no.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Generelle_forbehold

Content:  er en   som ligger tilgjengelig på  . Innholdet er åpent, det vil si at det skapes av en frivillig sammenslutning av enkeltpersoner og grupper, som utvikler en felles ressurs av menneskelig viten. Strukturen tillater enhver å endre på det innholdet som finnes her. Derfor er det som står i Wikipedia ikke nødvendigvis gjennomgått av profesjonelle med spesialkunnskap innenfor de ulike områder, som er nødvendige for å sikre fullstendige, presise og pålitelige opplysninger.
 Dette betyr ikke at man ikke kan finne mange verdifulle og nøyaktige opplysninger i Wikipedia, men   Opplysningene kan være forandret, vandalisert eller endret av noen med mangelfulle kunnskaper.
 Informasjonen på Wikipedia stilles gratis og frivillig til rådighet, og det etableres ingen form for avtale eller kontrakt som kan begrunne rettskrav fra brukerne av informasjonen direkte mot eierne av dette nettstedet, eierne av tjenerne det ligger på, de enkelte bidragsytere til Wikipedia, prosjektets administratorer, systemoperatører eller noen andre som   dette prosjektet eller dets søsterprosjekter.
 Du har en begrenset rett til å kopiere informasjon fra Wikipedia. Dette skaper ikke og det omfatter ikke noen kontraktslige eller utenomkontraktslige forpliktelser for Wikipedia, eller for noen av dets representanter, medlemmer, organisatorer eller andre brukere.
 Opplysninger som finnes på Wikipedia kan stride mot lovene i det landet eller rettsområdet hvor man ser disse opplysninger fra. Wikipedia oppfordrer ikke til lovovertredelse, men da informasjonen er lagret i delstaten Florida i USA, vedlikeholdes de med henvisning til den beskyttelse som sikres av   grunnlovs første tillegg og av FNs  .
 , da det er en frivillig sammenslutning av enkeltpersoner, som fritt har utviklet den for å skape forskjellige åpne ressurser av utdannelsesmessig, kulturell og informativ art på internettet.   og det finnes   angående bruk eller endring av opplysningene ut over  . Likeledes er ingen bidragsytere eller andre tilknyttet Wikipedia ansvarlig hvis noen skulle endre, redigere, modifisere eller fjerne noen av de opplysninger enkeltpersoner måtte legge inn på Wikipedia eller noen av dens tilknyttede prosjekter.
 Takk for at du har brukt tid på å lese denne siden.


URL: https://sw.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Kanusho_kwa_jumla

Content: Tango (Cucumis sativus) ni mimea iliyopandwa sana katika familia ya chumvi, Cucurbitaceae. Ni mzabibu unaozaa ambayo huzaa matunda mazuri ambayo hutumiwa kama mboga. Kuna aina tatu kuu za tango: kupunja, pickling, na mbegu. Ndani ya aina hizi, mbegu kadhaa zimeundwa. Nchini Amerika ya Kaskazini, neno "tango la mwitu" linamaanisha mimea katika kijiografia Echinocystis na Marah, lakini haya hayahusiana. Tango ni asili kutoka Asia ya Kusini, lakini sasa inakua katika mabara mengi. Aina nyingi za tango zinatumiwa kwenye soko la kimataifa.
 Yaliyomo
 Maelezo
 Tango ni mizabibu ya mizabibu ambayo ni mizizi katika ardhi na inakua mazao au vifungo vingine vya kuunga mkono, kufunika karibu na sambamba na tete nyembamba, za kutunga. Kiwanda kinaweza pia kuimarisha katikati ya kivuli na kitapungua chini ikiwa haina mkono. Mzabibu una majani makubwa yanayotengeneza mamba juu ya matunda. Matunda ya mboga ya kawaida ya tango ni takriban cylindrical, lakini hutolewa na mwisho wa tapered, na inaweza kuwa kubwa kama sentimita 60 (24 in) mrefu na sentimita 10 (3.9 in) mduara. [Citation] Inahitajika kuzungumza, tango ni Iliyowekwa kama pepo, aina ya berry ya mimea yenye punda ngumu ya nje na hakuna mgawanyiko wa ndani. Mengi kama nyanya na boga, mara nyingi huelewa, hutayarishwa na kuliwa kama mboga. Matunda ya tango mara nyingi zaidi ya 90% ya maji. [Citation inahitajika]
Maua na uchafuzi
 Mbegu chache za tango ni sehemu ya sherehe, maua huunda matunda yasiyo na mbegu bila uchafuzi. Uchafuzi wa mashamba haya huharibika ubora. Nchini Marekani, hizi hupandwa kwa kawaida katika maeneo ya kijani, ambapo nyuki hutolewa. Katika Ulaya, wao ni mzima nje katika mikoa fulani, na nyuki hutolewa kutoka maeneo haya.
 Magogo mengi ya tango, hata hivyo, yana mimea na yanahitaji kupamba rangi. Maelfu ya mizinga ya nyuki za nyuki hutolewa kila mwaka kwa mashamba ya tango kabla ya kupasuka kwa kusudi hili. Matango pia yanaweza kupikwa na blubebees na aina nyingine za nyuki. Matango mengi ambayo yanahitaji kupamba rangi ni ya kutofautiana, hivyo poleni kutoka kwenye mmea tofauti inahitajika kuunda mbegu na matunda. [1] Kuna baadhi ya cultivars zinazohusika na zinazohusiana na kilimo cha 'Lemon'. [1] Dalili za uchafuzi wa kutosha ni pamoja na mimba ya matunda na matunda mabaya. Maua ya rangi ya mviringo yanaweza kuzalisha matunda ambayo ni ya kijani na kuendeleza kawaida karibu na mwisho wa shina, lakini ni rangi ya njano na imeharibika katika mwisho wa maua.
 Kilimo cha jadi huzalisha maua ya kiume kwanza, kisha kike, katika idadi sawa. Magugu yaliyo karibu zaidi ya gynoecious huzalisha maua yote ya kike. Wanaweza kuwa na mimea ya pollenizer iliyoingizwa, na idadi ya nyuki kwa eneo la kitengo imeongezeka, lakini mabadiliko ya joto hushawishi maua ya kiume hata kwenye mimea hii, ambayo inaweza kuwa ya kutosha kwa ajili ya kupitisha mishipa kutokea. [1]
Maelezo ya Genomic ID ya genome ya NCBI 1639
Ploidy diploid
Ukubwa wa aina ya 323.99 Mb
Mitochondrion ya chombo iliyopangwa
Ukubwa wa viungo 244.82 Mb
Mwaka wa kukamilisha 2011
Genome
 Mnamo mwaka 2009, timu ya watafiti ya kimataifa ilitangaza kwamba walikuwa wametenganisha genome ya tango. [2]
Uzalishaji
Wazalishaji wa tano juu ya tango mwaka 2013
Uzalishaji wa Nchi, mamilioni ya tani
China 54.3
Uturuki 1.8
Iran 1.6
Urusi 1.1
Ukraine 1.0
Dunia 71,365,573
Chanzo: Shirika la Chakula na Kilimo (FAOSTAT) [3]
 Kulingana na Shirika la Chakula na Kilimo la Umoja wa Mataifa kwa tango na uzalishaji wa gherkin mwaka 2013, China ilizalisha 76% ya pato la kimataifa, ikifuatiwa na Uturuki, Iran, Urusi na Ukraine (meza).
Lishe
Tango, na peel, ghafi Thamani ya lishe kwa 100 g (3.5 oz)
Nishati 65 kJ (kcal 16)
Karodi
 3.63 g
Sugars 1.67
Fiber ya vyakula 0.5 g
Mafuta
 0.11 g
Protini
 0.65 g
Vitamini
Thiamine (B1)
(2%)
0.027 mg
Riboflavin (B2)
(3%)
0.033 mg
Niacin (B3)
(1%)
0.098 mg
Pantothenic asidi (B5)
(5%)
0.259 mg
Vitamini B6
(3%)
0.04 mg
Folate (B9)
(2%)
7 μg
Vitamini C
(3%)
2.8 mg
Vitamini K
(16%)
16.4 μg
Madini
Calcium 0.65 g
Vitamini
Thiamine (B1)
(2%)
0.027 mg
Riboflavin (B2)
(3%)
0.033 mg
Niacin (B3)
(1%)
0.098 mg
Pantothenic asidi (B5)
(5%)
0.259 mg
Vitamini B6
(3%)
0.04 mg
Folate (B9)
(2%)
7 μg
Vitamini C
(3%)
2.8 mg
Vitamini K
(16%)
16.4 μg
Madini
Calcium
(2%)
16 mg
Iron
(2%)
0.28 mg
Magnésiamu
(4%)
13 mg
Manganese
(4%)
0.079 mg
Phosphorus
(3%)
24 mg
Potasiamu
(3%)
147 mg
Sodiamu
(0%)
2 mg
Zinc
(2%)
0.2 mg
Wilaya wengine
Maji 95.23 g
Fluoride 1.3 μg
Unganisha kuingia kwa database ya USDA
 Asilimia ni karibu takriban kutumia mapendekezo ya Marekani kwa watu wazima.
 Katika huduma ya gramu 100, tango ghafi (na peel) ni maji ya 95%, hutoa kilojouli 67 (kilocalories 16) na hutoa maudhui ya chini ya virutubisho muhimu, kwa sababu inaonekana tu kwa vitamini K kwa asilimia 16 ya Thamani ya Kila siku (meza ).
Aina
Angalia pia: Orodha ya aina ya tango
 Katika kilimo cha kawaida, matango yanawekwa katika makundi matatu makuu ya kulima: "kupamba", "pickling", na "bila".
Kutafuta
Matango ya kukata
 Matango yaliyopandwa kula chakula huitwa matango ya slicing. Aina kuu za slicers hupandwa kwenye mizabibu na majani makubwa ambayo hutoa shading. [4] Wao hutumiwa hasa katika fomu isiyo ya rangi ya kijani, kwani fomu ya njano iliyoiva huwa kawaida na machungu. Vipande vilivyopandwa kwa kibiashara kwa soko la Amerika ya Kaskazini kwa kawaida ni zaidi, laini, sare zaidi katika rangi, na kuwa na ngozi kali zaidi. Slicers katika nchi nyingine ni ndogo na huwa na ngozi nyembamba, zaidi ya maridadi. Tango ndogo za kukata pia zinaweza kuchujwa.
Pickling
Matango ya Pickling
Makala kuu: Tango za Pickled
 Matango yanaweza kuchujwa kwa ladha na maisha zaidi ya rafu. Ingawa tango lolote linaweza kuchujwa, vifuniko vya biashara hufanywa kutoka kwa matango husingiwa kwa uwiano wa uwiano wa urefu na upepo na ukosefu wa voids katika mwili. Matango hayo yaliyotajwa kwa pickling, inayoitwa picklers, kukua hadi 7 hadi 10 cm (3 hadi 4 in) kwa muda mrefu na 2.5 cm (1 in) pana. Ikilinganishwa na slicers, picklers huwa na muda mfupi, mzito, chini ya umbo mara kwa mara, na huwa na ngozi nyekundu yenye vidogo vidogo vyenye nyeupe au nyeusi. Hazijawahi kushikamana. Rangi inaweza kutofautiana na rangi ya njano au rangi ya kijani. Matango ya Pickling wakati mwingine huuzwa safi kama matango ya "Kirby" au "Uhuru". Matango yaliyochapwa yanachapishwa kwenye brine au mchanganyiko wa siki na brine, ingawa si siki peke yake, mara kwa mara pamoja na viungo mbalimbali. Matango yaliyochaguliwa huitwa "pickles" nchini Marekani au "gherkins" au "mviringo" huko Uingereza, jina la mwisho lililokuwa la kawaida zaidi kaskazini mwa Uingereza na London, ambako linamaanisha matango makubwa ya siki iliyokatwa kwa kawaida katika samaki Na maduka ya chip.
Burupu
Sio kuchanganyikiwa na Mbegu za Burpe.
Tango la Isfahan lenye burpless awali kutoka Iran
 Tango zisizopigwa na matunda ni nzuri na zina ngozi nyembamba kuliko aina nyingine za tango, na zinajulikana kuwa rahisi kuponda na kuwa na ladha nzuri. Wanaweza kukua kwa muda mrefu kama meta mbili (0.61 m). Wao ni karibu bila mbegu, na wana ngozi nyeti. Mara nyingi hupandwa katika vitalu vya kijani, matango haya ya parthenocarpic mara nyingi hupatikana katika masoko ya mboga, hupunguka kwa plastiki. Wakati mwingine huchangiwa kama wasio na mbegu au wasio na burudani, kwa sababu mbegu na ngozi ya aina nyingine za matango zinasemekana kuwapa watu gesi. [5]
 Aina nyingine za cultivar zinauzwa kibiashara:
'Dosakai' ni turu, njano, tango kuonekana kwenye soko huko Guntur, India
 Rom na ladha
 Watu wengi huripoti harufu nzuri, karibu na maji ya harufu ya melon na ladha ya matango kutokana na misombo inayoitwa (E, Z) -nona-2,6-dienal, (Z) -2-nonenal na (E) -2-nonenal. [9] Tamu ya uchungu kidogo ya matango hutokea kwa cucurbitacins. [10]
Historia ya kilimo
 Matango yaliyotokea India, ambapo aina nyingi nyingi zimezingatiwa, [11] [12] [13] kutoka Cucumis hystrix. [11] [14] Imekuwa ikipandwa kwa angalau miaka 3,000, na labda ililetwa kwa sehemu nyingine za Ulaya na Wagiriki au Warumi. Kumbukumbu za kilimo cha tango huonekana nchini Ufaransa katika karne ya 9, England katika karne ya 14, na katika Amerika Kaskazini na katikati ya karne ya 16.
Kilimo cha awali
Tango ya njano ya Hindi
 Tango zimeorodheshwa kati ya vyakula vya Uri ya zamani, na hadithi ya Gilgamesh inaelezea watu wanaokula matango. [Vyanzo vingine] Vyanzo vingine [nani?] Pia wanasema kuwa ilitolewa katika kale ya Thrace, na kwa hakika ni sehemu ya vyakula vya kisasa nchini Bulgaria Na Uturuki, sehemu ambazo hufanya hali hiyo ya kale. Matango yanasemwa katika Biblia kama moja ya vyakula ambavyo Waisraeli walipokuliwa huko Misri. [15] Kutoka India, imeenea kwa Ugiriki (ambako ilikuwa inaitwa "σίκυον", síkyon) na Italia (ambapo Warumi walipenda sana mazao), na baadaye nchini China.
 Robert Daniel, akizungumza juu ya nusu ya pili ya karne ya tatu AD, ameamua kutambua neno lisilojulikana, ολγιττα, na al-qitta ya Kiarabu, neno la kawaida kwa tango. [16]
 Kulingana na Pliny Mzee (The Natural History, Kitabu XIX, Sura ya 23), Wagiriki wa kale walikua matango, na kulikuwa na aina tofauti katika Italia, Afrika, na Moesia.
Dola ya Kirumi
 Kulingana na Pliny, Mfalme Tiberius alikuwa na tango kwenye meza yake kila siku wakati wa majira ya joto na baridi. Warumi iliripotiwa kutumika mbinu za bandia (sawa na mfumo wa chafu) za kuongezeka kuwa na inapatikana kwa meza yake kila siku ya mwaka. "Kwa hakika, hakuwa na bila ya hayo, kwa kuwa alikuwa ameinua vitanda vilivyofanywa kwa muafaka juu ya magurudumu, kwa njia ambayo matango yalihamia na kufunuliwa kwa joto kamili la jua, wakati, wakati wa baridi, waliondolewa, na kuwekwa chini ya Ulinzi wa frames glazed na 'mirrorstone'. "[17] 'Mirrorstone' ni tafsiri halisi ya Pliny's 'lapis specularis', inaaminika kuwa ni mica ya karatasi.
 Inasema, pia walikulima katika nyumba za tango ambazo zimefunikwa na kitambaa cha mafuta kilichojulikana kama "specularia". [18]
 Pliny Mzee anaelezea matunda ya Kiitaliano kama mdogo sana, labda kama gherkin, akielezea kama tango ya mwitu mno mdogo kuliko yale yaliyopandwa. Pliny pia anaelezea maandalizi ya dawa inayojulikana kama elaterium, ingawa baadhi ya wasomi [ambao?] Wanaamini alikuwa akimaanisha Ecballium elaterium, inayojulikana katika nyakati za awali za Linnean kama "Cucumis silvestris" au "Cucumis asininus" ("tango za mwitu" au " Tango tunda "), aina tofauti na matango ya kawaida. [19] Pliny pia anaandika juu ya aina nyingine kadhaa ya tango, ikiwa ni pamoja na tango zilizolima, [20] na tiba kutoka kwa aina tofauti (9 kutoka kwa kulimwa, 5 kutoka "anguine", na 26 kutoka "mwitu"). Warumi wanasemekana kuwa wametumia matango ya kutibu maumivu ya kupigwa, macho mabaya, na kutisha panya. Wanawake wanaotamani kwa watoto walivaa viuno vyao. Walipelekwa pia na wajukuu, na kutupwa mbali wakati mtoto alizaliwa


URL: https://lo.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%BA%A7%E0%BA%B4%E0%BA%81%E0%BA%B4%E0%BA%9E%E0%BA%B5%E0%BB%80%E0%BA%94%E0%BA%8D:%E0%BA%82%E0%BB%8D%E0%BB%89%E0%BA%9B%E0%BA%B0%E0%BA%95%E0%BA%B4%E0%BB%80%E0%BA%AA%E0%BA%94%E0%BA%84%E0%BA%A7%E0%BA%B2%E0%BA%A1%E0%BA%AE%E0%BA%B1%E0%BA%9A%E0%BA%9C%E0%BA%B4%E0%BA%94%E0%BA%8A%E0%BA%AD%E0%BA%9A

Content: ວິກິພີເດຍແມ່ນສາລານຸກົມເສລີທາງອິນເຕີເນັດ ຊຶ່ງເປັນຜົນຈາກການອາສາສະໝັກຂອງບຸກຄົນ ທີ່ຢາກພັດທະນາມັນໃຫ້ເປັນແຫຼ່ງຄວາມຮູ້ທົ່ວໄປຂອງມະນຸດ ທຸກ ໆ ຄົນສາມາດດັດແກ້ເນື້ອໃນຂອງວິກິພີເດຍໄດ້ ສະນັ້ນກະລຸນາຮັບຊາບວ່າເນື້ອໃນໃດ ໆ ກໍ່ຕາມໃນວິກິພີເດຍແຫ່ງນີ້ ອາດຈະບໍ່ໄດ້ຮັບການກວດກາໂດຍນັກວິຊາການຫຼືບຸກຄົນທີ່ມີຄວາມຮູ້ກ່ຽວກັບເລື່ອງດັ່ງກ່າວ ເພື່ອຮັບປະກັນຄວາມຊັດເຈນແລະຖືກຕ້ອງທຸກປະການ ແຕ່ອັນນີ້ກໍ່ບໍ່ໄດ້ໝາຍຄວາມວ່າ ຜູ້ໃຊ້ຈະບໍ່ສາມາດພົບຫາເນື້ອໃນທີ່ມີຄຸນຄ່າແລະຊັດເຈນຢູ່ວິກິພີເດຍໄດ້
 ວິກິພີເດຍມີຂໍ້ມູນທີ່ບໍ່ຊັດເຈນເຊິ່ງຈະບໍ່ພົບຢູ່ໃນສານຸກົມທຳມະດາ ຂອບເຂດຂອງເນື້ອໃນຂອງວິກິພີເດຍແມ່ນຂຶ້ນກັບຜົນປະໂຫຍດຂອງອາສາສະໝັກທີ່ປະກອບສ່ວນ ຜູ້ອ່ານບໍ່ຄວນຕັດສິນຄວາມສໍາຄັນຂອງຫົວຂໍ້ໂດຍຜູ້ຂຽນຂອງມັນຢູ່ໃນວິກິພີເດຍ ຫຼືສົມມຸດວ່າຫົວຂໍ້ແມ່ນສໍາຄັນ ພຽງແຕ່ເນື່ອງຈາກຖືກຂຽນກ່ຽວກັບວິກິພີເດຍ
 ຂໍ້ມູນທາງການແພດໃນບົດຄວາມຂອງວິກິພີເດຍ ເປັນພຽງຂໍ້ມູນຊ່ວຍສຳຫຼັບການສຶກສາເທົ່ານັ້ນ ແລະຈະບໍ່ສາມາດທຽບກັບຄຳແນະນຳຂອງແພດ ພະຍາບານ ຫຼືຜູ້ຊ່ຽວຊານໄດ້ ດັ່ງນັ້ນກະລຸນາຢ່າອ້າງອີງເນື້ອໃນຈາກວິກິພີເດຍໃນການປົວພະຍາດ
 ຂໍ້ມູນທາງກົດໝາຍໃນບົດຄວາມຂອງວິກິພີເດຍ ເປັນພຽງຂໍ້ມູນຊ່ວຍເຫຼືອທາງການສຶກສາເທົ່ານັ້ນ ບໍ່ແມ່ນຂໍ້ມູນທາງກົດໝາຍທີ່ສາມາດໃຊ້ອ້າງອີງໄດ້ໃນສານ ແລະວິກິພີເດຍກໍ່ບໍ່ແມ່ນທະນາຍທີ່ຈະໃຫ້ທ່ານເອົາເນື້້ອໃນໄປອ້າງອີງໃນທາງຕຸລາການໄດ້
 ຈົ່ງຈື່ໄວ້ວ່າຂໍ້ມູນໃດ ໆ ທີ່ທ່ານອາດພົບເຫັນຢູ່ໃນວິກິພີເດຍອາດຈະບໍ່ຖືກຕ້ອງ ເຮັດໃຫ້ເຂົ້າໃຈຜິດ ເປັນອັນຕະລາຍ ຜິດສິນລະທຳ ຫຼືຜິດກົດໝາຍ
 ຂໍ້ມູນບາງຢ່າງໃນວິກິພີເດຍອາດຈະສ້າງຄວາມສ່ຽງທີ່ບໍ່ສົມເຫດສົມຜົນຕໍ່ຜູ້ອ່ານທີ່ເລືອກທີ່ຈະອີງໃສ່ຫຼືນໍາໃຊ້ຂໍ້ມູນໃນກິດຈະກໍາຂອງເຂົາເຈົ້າ ຫຼືປະກອບສ່ວນເຂົ້າໃນການນໍາໃຊ້ຂໍ້ມູນດັ່ງກ່າວໂດຍບຸກຄົນທີ່ສາມ


URL: https://ky.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%8F:%D0%96%D0%BE%D0%BE%D0%BF%D0%BA%D0%B5%D1%80%D1%87%D0%B8%D0%BB%D0%B8%D0%BA%D1%82%D0%B5%D0%BD_%D0%B1%D0%B0%D1%88_%D1%82%D0%B0%D1%80%D1%82%D1%83%D1%83

Content: Бирок, Википедиядан пайдалуу жана так маалымат табылбайт деп айтканга болбойт, тескерисинче, басымдуу бөлүгү андай маалымат. Ага карабастан,  . Кандай гана макала болбосун, билимдин кандайдыр бир жаатындагы азыркы учурдагы кеңири таанылган жоболорун тааныбастык көз караштагы адам тарабынан жакында эле бурмаланып бойдон калышы мүмкүн.
 Жигердүү түзөтүүчүлөрүбүз Википедияда болгон бардык өзгөртүүлөргө « » жана « » сыяктуу куралдарды колдонуп көз салып турушат. Бул жумуш ыктыярдуу аткарылганына байланыштуу, Википедиядагы кандай гана маалыматтын, кандайдыр бир максатка ылайыктуулугуна же колдонулушуна эч кандай кепилдик берилбейт. Жада калса, расмий эмес эксперттик баалоодон өтүп, « » макамына ээ макалалар сиз окуурдун алдында чар-жайыт түзөтүлгөн болушу мүмкүн.
 
 Бул жердеги маалымат   ушул сайттын ээсинин же колдонуучуларынын, Википедия жайгаша турган серверлердин ээлеринин, Википедиянын айрым түзөтүүчүлөрүнүн, долбоордун администраторлорунун, тутумдук администраторлордун жана бул же тектеш долбоорлорго катышы бар, дооматыңыздын жоопкери болуп калышы мүмкүн адамдардын ортосунда  . Ушул сайттагы нерселерди көчүрүү укугу чектелет. Бул укук, Википедиянын бир дагы бөлүгү же анын агенттери, мүчөлөрү, уюштуруучулары же башка колдонуучулары үчүн эч кандай жарандык же башка түрдөгү жоопкерчиликти жаратпайт.
 Маалыматты Creative Commons Attribution/Share-Alike (CC-BY-SA) жана GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL) лицензиялары тышкары пайдалануу же өзгөртүү боюнча  . Ошондой эле, Википедияда же байланыштуу долбоорлордо жайгаштырган маалыматыңыздын кандай болбосун өзгөрүшү же жок кылынышы үчүн эч ким жооп бербейт.
 Википедиянын макалаларында айтылып кеткен, колдонулган же үзүндү катары келтирилген соода белгилери, тейлөө жана жамааттык белгилер, дизайнга болгон укук сыяктуу укуктардын баары алардын укук ээлерине таандык. Аларды бул жерде колдонгонуңуз менен, CC-BY-SA жана GFDL лицензияларынын схемасы боюнча Википедия макалаларынын авторлору ойлонуштурган же маалымат алуу максаттан башка максатта колдоно албайсыз. Эгерде башкача шартталбаса, Википедиянын жана Викимедиа фондунун башка сайттарынын мындай укук ээлери менен эч кандай байланышы жок болгондуктан, Википедия автордук укук менен корголгон материалдарды колдонуу укугун тескей албайт. Ушул жана сыяктуу материалдарды өз жоопкерчилигиңиз менен колдоносуз.
 Википедия, адамды аныктоого мүмкүнчүлүк берген материалдарды камтыйт. Ал адамдардын арасында тирүү же жакында көзү өтүп кеткендер бар болушу мүмкүн. Айрым юрисдикцияларда, автордук укук менен корголуп же корголбогонуна карабастан, тирүү же жакында көзү өткөн адамдардын элесин колдонуу инсандын укуктарын жөнгө салган мыйзамдар менен чектелет. Мындай материалдарды колдонуудан мурун, аларды колдоно турган жагдайларда тийиштүү мыйзамдарга ылайык колдонууга болот же болбойт экенин билип алыңыз.  .
 Википедияда жайгашкан маалыматты жайылтуу, сиз турган мамлекеттин мыйзамдарын бузушу мүмкүн. Википедиянын маалымат базасы Америка Кошмо Штаттарында жайгашкан серверлерде сакталып, ошол мамлекеттин жергиликтүү жана федералдык мыйзамдарында каралган чаралар менен корголот. Өлкөңүздүн мыйзамдары мындай кеп кылууга же жайылтууга жол бербеши мүмкүн. Википедия кандайдыр бир мыйзам бузулууларды үндөбөйт жана ушул сайтка шилтемелерди берилгени же ушул сайттагы маалыматты колдонулуушу же жайылтылышы менен мыйзамдардын бузулганы үчүн жооп бере албайт.


URL: https://oc.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A8dia:Avertiments_generals

Content: Wikipèdia es une enciclopèdia fondada sus la tecnologia  . Aquesta tecnologia permet a tot visitor,  , de modificar a tot moment lo contengut de las paginas e de ne crear. Alara, se vesètz un problèma dins un article, podètz  :
 Per vos ajudar a modificar Wikipèdia, podètz consultar l'  e las   (especialament las  ).
 Aquesta libertat d'accès a per consequéncia que qualqu'un pòt introduire, deliberadament o non, d’errors, d’informacions falsificadas o biaissadas, que demoraràn presentas fins que qualqu'un mai las corregisca.
 En definitiva, coma per cada font d'informacion qu’utilizatz, vos es recomandat de far jogar vòstre  . Per vos permetre de jutjar rapidament de la qualitat d'un article sus Wikipèdia, se conselha de procedir lo pus sovent possible als dos contraròtles seguents : 
 Divèrs avertiments se pòdon plaçar a la cima dels articles per senhalar un desacòrdi de neutralitat, de pertinéncia, o encara de lacunas o d’errors. Wikipèdia es une enciclopèdia « viva » que convida sos legeires a participar a un procès de collaboracion dobèrt. En responsa a vòstres dobtes, la consultacion de las paginas seguentas serà segurament utila :
  :
 Se fornís pas cap de garantida concernent la pertinéncia, la fisabilitat ni la quita legalitat dels sites qu'i menan los ligams extèrnes que pòdon trobar dins las paginas de Wikipèdia.


URL: https://kw.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: po vershyon yn neb tavos arall.


URL: https://lo.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%BA%A7%E0%BA%B4%E0%BA%81%E0%BA%B4%E0%BA%9E%E0%BA%B5%E0%BB%80%E0%BA%94%E0%BA%8D:%E0%BA%82%E0%BB%8D%E0%BB%89%E0%BA%9B%E0%BA%B0%E0%BA%95%E0%BA%B4%E0%BB%80%E0%BA%AA%E0%BA%94%E0%BA%84%E0%BA%A7%E0%BA%B2%E0%BA%A1%E0%BA%AE%E0%BA%B1%E0%BA%9A%E0%BA%9C%E0%BA%B4%E0%BA%94%E0%BA%8A%E0%BA%AD%E0%BA%9A

Content: ວິກິພີເດຍແມ່ນສາລານຸກົມເສລີທາງອິນເຕີເນັດ ຊຶ່ງເປັນຜົນຈາກການອາສາສະໝັກຂອງບຸກຄົນ ທີ່ຢາກພັດທະນາມັນໃຫ້ເປັນແຫຼ່ງຄວາມຮູ້ທົ່ວໄປຂອງມະນຸດ ທຸກ ໆ ຄົນສາມາດດັດແກ້ເນື້ອໃນຂອງວິກິພີເດຍໄດ້ ສະນັ້ນກະລຸນາຮັບຊາບວ່າເນື້ອໃນໃດ ໆ ກໍ່ຕາມໃນວິກິພີເດຍແຫ່ງນີ້ ອາດຈະບໍ່ໄດ້ຮັບການກວດກາໂດຍນັກວິຊາການຫຼືບຸກຄົນທີ່ມີຄວາມຮູ້ກ່ຽວກັບເລື່ອງດັ່ງກ່າວ ເພື່ອຮັບປະກັນຄວາມຊັດເຈນແລະຖືກຕ້ອງທຸກປະການ ແຕ່ອັນນີ້ກໍ່ບໍ່ໄດ້ໝາຍຄວາມວ່າ ຜູ້ໃຊ້ຈະບໍ່ສາມາດພົບຫາເນື້ອໃນທີ່ມີຄຸນຄ່າແລະຊັດເຈນຢູ່ວິກິພີເດຍໄດ້
 ວິກິພີເດຍມີຂໍ້ມູນທີ່ບໍ່ຊັດເຈນເຊິ່ງຈະບໍ່ພົບຢູ່ໃນສານຸກົມທຳມະດາ ຂອບເຂດຂອງເນື້ອໃນຂອງວິກິພີເດຍແມ່ນຂຶ້ນກັບຜົນປະໂຫຍດຂອງອາສາສະໝັກທີ່ປະກອບສ່ວນ ຜູ້ອ່ານບໍ່ຄວນຕັດສິນຄວາມສໍາຄັນຂອງຫົວຂໍ້ໂດຍຜູ້ຂຽນຂອງມັນຢູ່ໃນວິກິພີເດຍ ຫຼືສົມມຸດວ່າຫົວຂໍ້ແມ່ນສໍາຄັນ ພຽງແຕ່ເນື່ອງຈາກຖືກຂຽນກ່ຽວກັບວິກິພີເດຍ
 ຂໍ້ມູນທາງການແພດໃນບົດຄວາມຂອງວິກິພີເດຍ ເປັນພຽງຂໍ້ມູນຊ່ວຍສຳຫຼັບການສຶກສາເທົ່ານັ້ນ ແລະຈະບໍ່ສາມາດທຽບກັບຄຳແນະນຳຂອງແພດ ພະຍາບານ ຫຼືຜູ້ຊ່ຽວຊານໄດ້ ດັ່ງນັ້ນກະລຸນາຢ່າອ້າງອີງເນື້ອໃນຈາກວິກິພີເດຍໃນການປົວພະຍາດ
 ຂໍ້ມູນທາງກົດໝາຍໃນບົດຄວາມຂອງວິກິພີເດຍ ເປັນພຽງຂໍ້ມູນຊ່ວຍເຫຼືອທາງການສຶກສາເທົ່ານັ້ນ ບໍ່ແມ່ນຂໍ້ມູນທາງກົດໝາຍທີ່ສາມາດໃຊ້ອ້າງອີງໄດ້ໃນສານ ແລະວິກິພີເດຍກໍ່ບໍ່ແມ່ນທະນາຍທີ່ຈະໃຫ້ທ່ານເອົາເນື້້ອໃນໄປອ້າງອີງໃນທາງຕຸລາການໄດ້
 ຈົ່ງຈື່ໄວ້ວ່າຂໍ້ມູນໃດ ໆ ທີ່ທ່ານອາດພົບເຫັນຢູ່ໃນວິກິພີເດຍອາດຈະບໍ່ຖືກຕ້ອງ ເຮັດໃຫ້ເຂົ້າໃຈຜິດ ເປັນອັນຕະລາຍ ຜິດສິນລະທຳ ຫຼືຜິດກົດໝາຍ
 ຂໍ້ມູນບາງຢ່າງໃນວິກິພີເດຍອາດຈະສ້າງຄວາມສ່ຽງທີ່ບໍ່ສົມເຫດສົມຜົນຕໍ່ຜູ້ອ່ານທີ່ເລືອກທີ່ຈະອີງໃສ່ຫຼືນໍາໃຊ້ຂໍ້ມູນໃນກິດຈະກໍາຂອງເຂົາເຈົ້າ ຫຼືປະກອບສ່ວນເຂົ້າໃນການນໍາໃຊ້ຂໍ້ມູນດັ່ງກ່າວໂດຍບຸກຄົນທີ່ສາມ


URL: https://frr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Impressum

Content: 
 „Wikipedia, Di frii Ensiklopedii“ es ön't Nat öner   tö finj, üp Dütsk öner  .
 Des Websir uur fan di   önberen, wat bi dat   öner di Numer N03000005323 iinskrewen es. Di Wikimedia Foundation es en Stifting eeđer't Rocht fan di US-Bundsstaat  . Wan wat tö bisnaki es, da sket Dü des me  . biraili, wat uk di   ön di Sen fan di   es.
 Wan Dü wat fraagi of en Interview maaki wet, da kenst Dü uk hol jen fan di Nuurđfriisk Meaarberers fraagi, biluki diartö   en  .
 Wikipedia es en frii  . Muar au des  Projekt kenst Dü üp di Sir   sa üs iin ön di   lees. Di Biteekning „frii“ meent, dat Wikipedia-Bidrachen   sen. Em mut diareeđer alis priwaat oder kommertsiel binüti, wat em jir fent. Hur'ling dat ginau funktsjoniaret, staant langsen diarbi:   of  .  
Wan di Lir wat hoogstjüüri, ken di diarfuar forskelig Aarten binüti, en dö dit frii. Em skel langsen gur döörlees, hur'ling di Datei friidönen es. Biluki uk  .
 Biluki uk dat   fan di Wikimedia Foundation.
 Wiis sa gur en biluki di   fan di Wikimedia Foundation en di üđer  .
 Ali Wikipedia-Skriiwers fo Biskiir, dat di alis, wat ja tö des Natsir tödö, eeđer jaar beest Weeten en Giweeten āpskriif skel. Wat iin ön di Wikipedia staant, dat heer ein Gimiinskep ütaarbert, en dit kontroliaret uk nemen üs jam salev. Ark Bidrach ken fan arkenjen foranert uur. Senerk Bidrachen, wat sa ütse, üs wan di töögen Rochten (Sa üs Urheber-, Forwertings-, Menskenrochten) gung, ken söner Biskiir iinfach wechmaakit uur. Arkjen staant fuar dat, wat hi skrewen her, gans aliining iin. Di Wikipedia bihalt dat Rocht, olterslemi Skriiwers üttösmit.
 Di Struktuur fan di Wikipedia es iipen. Diaraur ken't pasiari, dat en Bidrach olter ual of somhur forkiirt skrewen es, of dat em ek muar keen ken, hurme di Bidrach töhophangt. Mesken es en Bidrach uk olter kuurt. 
Di ensiklopeedisk Bidrachen ön di Wikipedia skel juu help en liir wat diartö. En Reer skel di ek dö. 
Dat Risiko, wan jen alis liift, wat jir staant, ken di Skriiwers ek draii en di Wikipedia uk ek. 
Biluki diartö uk di   en di  .
 Di Skriiwers, wat   of „Sysop“ nēmt sen, hiir ek tö di Wikipedia. Ja sen Skriiwers, wat muar Rochten fingen haa, aurdat ja me di Technik fan di Wikipedia gur om ken. 
Fuar't miist help des Lir hol en gau, wan't Fraagen jeft of wan wat ek rocht paset.  
Ja sen man ek fuar alis töstendig en haftbaar, wat jir pasiaret.
 Di Önberer fan des Natsir jeft aural Biskiir, dat niin Skelter, Teksti, Musik of üđers nemen uur skel, hur en trērst Mensk Urheberrochten ön heer. 
Bi di Wikipedia uur rocht fuul hoogstjüürt en skrewen. Diaraur ken uk nemen disarfuar üppasi, dat diar ek dach en Skelt of üers diartwesken es, wat diar ek wiis skul. 
Aurdes skel jen, hokens Aarber jir söner di Rochten diarfuar weegit uur, hol Biskiir sii, da uur des Datei metjens ütnemen. 
Di ofitsieli Wai es, des Biskiir hentö jen fan di   (eeđer US-Gisetsi) fan Wikimedia tö stjüüri. 
Fuar't miist es't man efen sa gur of mener swaar, aktiivi Skriiwers en Natpost tö stjüür: Di Adres es  . 
Iin ön des Natpost skel di Adres fan di Sir staan, hur di Dati tö finj es, wat diar ek henjert.


URL: https://ks.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%D9%90%DA%A9%DB%8C%D9%96%D9%BE%DB%8C%D9%96%DA%88%DB%8C%D8%A7:%D8%B9%D9%8E%D9%88%D9%B2%D9%85%DB%8C_%D8%A7%D9%90%D8%B8%DB%81%D8%A7%D8%B1%D9%90_%D9%84%D8%A7_%D8%AA%D9%88%D9%84%D9%8F%D9%82%DB%8C

Content: 
 وِکیٖپیٖڈیا چھُ اَکھ آنلایِن رَضاکار، آزاد انسایكلوپیڈیا یَتھ مَنٛز ہَر کانٛہہ ہیٚکہِ اؠڈِٹ کٔرِتھ۔ وِکیٖپیٖڈیاہَس چھُ کانٛہہ تہِ ہیٚکَن تَبدیلی أنِتھ۔ یہِ گَژھِ یاد تھاوُن زِ پرٛتھ کانٛہہ مَضموٗن چھُنہٕ مٲہِر گَشتہٕ کٔرِتھ آسان تہٕ یِمَن مَضموٗنَن مَنٛز ہیٚکہِ غَلَط مَعلوٗمات آسِتھ۔
 اَمیُٛک مَطلَب چھُنہٕ زِ وِکیٖپیٖڈیاہَس پؠٹھ چھُ خألی غلط مولوٗماتھ آسان بٔلکہِ چھُ وِکیٖپیٖڈیاہَس پؠٹھ واریاہ اَصٕل مولوٗماتھ تہِ دَسیاب۔ کُنہِ تہِ مَضموٗنُک مَواد ہیٚکہِ بَدلاونہٕ آمُت، خَراب کَرنہٕ 
یا آمُت۔


URL: https://ht.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedya:Av%C3%A8tisman_jeneral

Content: Wikipedya se yon sit entènèt ki ofri yon ansiklopedi kolaboratif ki gen kontni anba "lisans gratis". Wikipedya alimante ak yon asosyasyon moun volontè ak gwoup k ap travay ki vle bati ansanm yon resous konplè nan konesans moun. Estrikti pwojè sa a menm  pèmèt nenpòt moun ki gen yon koneksyon entènèt modifye kontni li yo. Se konsa, ou dwe konnen ke se pa tout bagay isit la ke moun ki gen ekspètiz ladan l analize pou ba ou enfòmasyon konplè, egzat ak serye.
 Sa pa vle di tou ke ou pa pral jwenn enfòmasyon egzat ak valab sou Wikipedya. Kèk tan w ap jwenn. Sepandan, Wikipedya pa garanti validite, presizyon, konplè oswa enpòtans enfòmasyon ki sou sit li a. Kontni chak atik gen dwa te modifye, vandalize oswa chanje pa yon moun ki gen opinyon ki pa koresponn ak eta konesans nan domèn konsène yo, oswa ak netralite ki nesesè.
 Kominote ki asosye ak Wikipedya toujou ap chèche chwazi epi pote vèsyon ki fyab nan atik yo. Pou fè sa, li sèvi ak zouti tankou  , paj swiv ak   pou kontwole evolisyon kontni aktyèl la ak chanjman li yo. Sepandan, Wikipedya pa revize kanmarad yo. Nenpòt lektè ka korije erè oswa patisipe nan yon  , men lektè sa yo pa gen okenn obligasyon legal pou yo fè sa, e se poutèt sa tout enfòmasyon ki isit yo pa garanti okenn fyabilite pou okenn rezon oswa itilizasyon. Menm atik ki te verifye pa yon revizyon parèy enfòmèl oswa otorize atravè yon pwosesis ki mennen nan yon  , Lè sa a, yo te kapab modifye yon fason ki pa apwopriye jis anvan ou te edite yo. Se poutèt sa li rekòmande pou toujou kenbe yon   atik yo.
 Kontni ki pwopoze la yo gratis, san okenn obligasyon ni isit ni  lòtbò, epi pa gen okenn kalite akò oswa kontra ki etabli ant ou menm ak pwopriyetè yo oswa itilizatè yo sou sit sa a, mèt sèvè k ap jere yo a, kontribitè endividyèl Wikipedya, nenpòt ki moun. administratè pwojè yo, biwokrat yo, devlopè yo, administratè sistèm yo, oswa nenpòt lòt moun ki "konekte nenpòt fason" ak pwojè sa a oswa nenpòt lòt ti pwojè moun ki ka sijè a plent dirèk ou yo.
 Ou gen yon lisans limite pou kopye tout oswa yon pati nan kontni sit sa a; sa pa kreye oswa vle di okenn responsablite kontra oswa ekstra-kontra ak Wikipedya oswa nenpòt nan ajan li yo, manm, òganizatè, patisipan yo, oswa lòt itilizatè.
Pa gen   konsènan itilizasyon oswa modifikasyon enfòmasyon sa yo pi lwen pase Lisans Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported  . Menm jan an tou, si yon moun ta chanje, modifye, modifye oswa efase nenpòt enfòmasyon ou ta mete sou Wikipedya oswa nenpòt nan pwojè ki gen rapò ak li yo, "pa gen moun ki responsab sou Wikipedya sèlman moun ki fè chanjman yo.
 Mak komèsyal, mak sèvis, mak kolektif, dwa konsepsyon, dwa pèsonalite oswa dwa menm ki sanble jan yo mansyone yo, itilize oswa site nan atik Wikipedya yo se e yo rete zafè pwopriyetè respektif yo. Itilizasyon yo isit la pa vle di ke ou ta ka sèvi ak yo pou nenpòt lòt bagay ke enfòmasyon (oswa rezon ki sanble) jan otè orijinal yo nan atik Wikipedya sa yo te vle di anba Lisans Creative Commons BY-SA-3.0. Sòf si yo espesifye otreman, Wikimedya ak sit Wikimedya yo pa andose oswa afilye ak okenn nan moun ki gen dwa yo, e kòm sa yo, yo pa kapab bay Wikipedya okenn lisans pou itilize nenpòt materyèl ki pwoteje pa dwa sa yo. Itilizasyon ou menm dwa sa yo, oswa lòt pwopriyete entanjib sa yo, se sèlman sou pwòp risk ou.
 Piblikasyon enfòmasyon ki sou Wikipedya ka pa konfòme ak lwa aplikab nan peyi kote w ap gade enfòmasyon sa a. Baz done Wikipedya a estoke sou yon sèvè nan Eta   nan  , epi operasyon li an konfòm ak lwa lokal ak federal Ozetazini. Wikipedya pa adrese okenn peyi an patikilye. Lwa ki aplikab nan peyi w gen dwa pa pèmèt pwoteksyon sa a, oswa yo ka pa pèmèt piblikasyon oswa distribisyon diskou sa a. Wikipedya pa ankouraje okenn vyolasyon lwa a epi yo pa kapab responsab okenn vyolasyon nenpòt lwa, kit se paske ou gen rapò ak domèn sa a oswa kit ou itlize, repwodui oswa repibliye enfòmasyon ki nan sit sa a.
 Si w bezwen konsèy espesifik (egzanp medikal, legal, finansye oswa jesyon risk), tanpri konsilte yon pwofesyonèl ki konpetan oswa ki konnen ki gen konesans nan domèn sa a.


URL: https://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:%E5%85%8D%E8%B2%AC%E4%BA%8B%E9%A0%85

Content: 
 
 本サイトは、あなたに対して何も保証しません。本サイトの関係者（他の利用者も含む）は、あなたに対して一切責任を負いません。あなたが、本サイトを利用（閲覧、投稿、外部での再利用など全てを含む）する場合は、自己責任で行う必要があります。
 ウィキペディア (Wikipedia) は、無償のボランティアの参加者の貢献によって執筆、編集されている百科事典であり、その編集方針、百科事典作成プロジェクトとしての運営方針などもボランティアの議論によって決められています。プロジェクトへの参加資格の制限はなく、参加者には一定期間または一定量の貢献をすることなどの義務はありません。さらに、ウィキペディアでは、ウィキウィキウェブとよばれるシステムを採用することによって、ほぼ全てのページが、いつでも、誰にでも書き換えられるような状態にしてあります。
 ウィキペディアで使用しているソフトウェア は、無償のボランティアの貢献によって作成・改良されているものです。また、ウィキペディアの運営資金は、有志の寄付によって提供されており、アメリカ合衆国フロリダ州にある非営利団体「 」を通じて管理・提供されています。そして、ウィキペディアのサーバの大部分は、アメリカ合衆国フロリダ州にあります。
 ウィキペディアは200以上の言語にまたがって展開される であり、その参加者も世界中の多くの国々において活動しています。URLが   に始まる諸ページからなる本サイトは、そのウィキペディアの1つです。もちろん、日本語版の参加者にも、日本以外の世界のさまざまな地域から参加している人も大勢います。
 最後になりましたが、ウィキペディアでは、CC-BY-SA4.0 InternationalおよびGFDLを採用することによって、ウィキペディアが提供するコンテンツについて、公正な「引用」以上の自由な改変・再利用を容易にしています。つまり、著作権関係の煩雑な手続きを、 の概念によって簡略化しようというものです。
 
 
 
 本サイトのコンテンツに記載された会社名・製品名は、各法人または個人の登録商標または商標です。百科事典としての可読性を保つため、文中での®記号、™記号は省略しています。
 
 GFDL Version 1.2 の 第1項 (section 1) 10段落目にある “Warranty Disclaimers” （直訳すれば「保証否認声明書」）となるこの文書は、GFDLにおける免責を補完します。
 このページは、本サイトのみに適用されるもので、他のウィキメディア・プロジェクト（ウィキペディアの他の言語版やウィキブックスなどの姉妹プロジェクト）については、各々が提示する文書がありますので、それに従ってください。
 特に、それら他のウィキメディア・プロジェクトから翻訳されたページについては、元のプロジェクトで提供されている「免責事項」規定も合わせて適用する必要があります。他言語版ウィキペディアの「免責事項」は本ページからの他言語リンクを参照してください。そのほかのウィキメディア･プロジェクトの免責事項は、英語版の “Disclaimers” に相当する位置のリンクをたどってください。


URL: https://ky.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%8F:%D0%96%D0%BE%D0%BE%D0%BF%D0%BA%D0%B5%D1%80%D1%87%D0%B8%D0%BB%D0%B8%D0%BA%D1%82%D0%B5%D0%BD_%D0%B1%D0%B0%D1%88_%D1%82%D0%B0%D1%80%D1%82%D1%83%D1%83

Content: Бирок, Википедиядан пайдалуу жана так маалымат табылбайт деп айтканга болбойт, тескерисинче, басымдуу бөлүгү андай маалымат. Ага карабастан,  . Кандай гана макала болбосун, билимдин кандайдыр бир жаатындагы азыркы учурдагы кеңири таанылган жоболорун тааныбастык көз караштагы адам тарабынан жакында эле бурмаланып бойдон калышы мүмкүн.
 Жигердүү түзөтүүчүлөрүбүз Википедияда болгон бардык өзгөртүүлөргө « » жана « » сыяктуу куралдарды колдонуп көз салып турушат. Бул жумуш ыктыярдуу аткарылганына байланыштуу, Википедиядагы кандай гана маалыматтын, кандайдыр бир максатка ылайыктуулугуна же колдонулушуна эч кандай кепилдик берилбейт. Жада калса, расмий эмес эксперттик баалоодон өтүп, « » макамына ээ макалалар сиз окуурдун алдында чар-жайыт түзөтүлгөн болушу мүмкүн.
 
 Бул жердеги маалымат   ушул сайттын ээсинин же колдонуучуларынын, Википедия жайгаша турган серверлердин ээлеринин, Википедиянын айрым түзөтүүчүлөрүнүн, долбоордун администраторлорунун, тутумдук администраторлордун жана бул же тектеш долбоорлорго катышы бар, дооматыңыздын жоопкери болуп калышы мүмкүн адамдардын ортосунда  . Ушул сайттагы нерселерди көчүрүү укугу чектелет. Бул укук, Википедиянын бир дагы бөлүгү же анын агенттери, мүчөлөрү, уюштуруучулары же башка колдонуучулары үчүн эч кандай жарандык же башка түрдөгү жоопкерчиликти жаратпайт.
 Маалыматты Creative Commons Attribution/Share-Alike (CC-BY-SA) жана GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL) лицензиялары тышкары пайдалануу же өзгөртүү боюнча  . Ошондой эле, Википедияда же байланыштуу долбоорлордо жайгаштырган маалыматыңыздын кандай болбосун өзгөрүшү же жок кылынышы үчүн эч ким жооп бербейт.
 Википедиянын макалаларында айтылып кеткен, колдонулган же үзүндү катары келтирилген соода белгилери, тейлөө жана жамааттык белгилер, дизайнга болгон укук сыяктуу укуктардын баары алардын укук ээлерине таандык. Аларды бул жерде колдонгонуңуз менен, CC-BY-SA жана GFDL лицензияларынын схемасы боюнча Википедия макалаларынын авторлору ойлонуштурган же маалымат алуу максаттан башка максатта колдоно албайсыз. Эгерде башкача шартталбаса, Википедиянын жана Викимедиа фондунун башка сайттарынын мындай укук ээлери менен эч кандай байланышы жок болгондуктан, Википедия автордук укук менен корголгон материалдарды колдонуу укугун тескей албайт. Ушул жана сыяктуу материалдарды өз жоопкерчилигиңиз менен колдоносуз.
 Википедия, адамды аныктоого мүмкүнчүлүк берген материалдарды камтыйт. Ал адамдардын арасында тирүү же жакында көзү өтүп кеткендер бар болушу мүмкүн. Айрым юрисдикцияларда, автордук укук менен корголуп же корголбогонуна карабастан, тирүү же жакында көзү өткөн адамдардын элесин колдонуу инсандын укуктарын жөнгө салган мыйзамдар менен чектелет. Мындай материалдарды колдонуудан мурун, аларды колдоно турган жагдайларда тийиштүү мыйзамдарга ылайык колдонууга болот же болбойт экенин билип алыңыз.  .
 Википедияда жайгашкан маалыматты жайылтуу, сиз турган мамлекеттин мыйзамдарын бузушу мүмкүн. Википедиянын маалымат базасы Америка Кошмо Штаттарында жайгашкан серверлерде сакталып, ошол мамлекеттин жергиликтүү жана федералдык мыйзамдарында каралган чаралар менен корголот. Өлкөңүздүн мыйзамдары мындай кеп кылууга же жайылтууга жол бербеши мүмкүн. Википедия кандайдыр бир мыйзам бузулууларды үндөбөйт жана ушул сайтка шилтемелерди берилгени же ушул сайттагы маалыматты колдонулуушу же жайылтылышы менен мыйзамдардын бузулганы үчүн жооп бере албайт.


URL: https://kw.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: po vershyon yn neb tavos arall.


URL: https://sw.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Kanusho_kwa_jumla

Content: Tango (Cucumis sativus) ni mimea iliyopandwa sana katika familia ya chumvi, Cucurbitaceae. Ni mzabibu unaozaa ambayo huzaa matunda mazuri ambayo hutumiwa kama mboga. Kuna aina tatu kuu za tango: kupunja, pickling, na mbegu. Ndani ya aina hizi, mbegu kadhaa zimeundwa. Nchini Amerika ya Kaskazini, neno "tango la mwitu" linamaanisha mimea katika kijiografia Echinocystis na Marah, lakini haya hayahusiana. Tango ni asili kutoka Asia ya Kusini, lakini sasa inakua katika mabara mengi. Aina nyingi za tango zinatumiwa kwenye soko la kimataifa.
 Yaliyomo
 Maelezo
 Tango ni mizabibu ya mizabibu ambayo ni mizizi katika ardhi na inakua mazao au vifungo vingine vya kuunga mkono, kufunika karibu na sambamba na tete nyembamba, za kutunga. Kiwanda kinaweza pia kuimarisha katikati ya kivuli na kitapungua chini ikiwa haina mkono. Mzabibu una majani makubwa yanayotengeneza mamba juu ya matunda. Matunda ya mboga ya kawaida ya tango ni takriban cylindrical, lakini hutolewa na mwisho wa tapered, na inaweza kuwa kubwa kama sentimita 60 (24 in) mrefu na sentimita 10 (3.9 in) mduara. [Citation] Inahitajika kuzungumza, tango ni Iliyowekwa kama pepo, aina ya berry ya mimea yenye punda ngumu ya nje na hakuna mgawanyiko wa ndani. Mengi kama nyanya na boga, mara nyingi huelewa, hutayarishwa na kuliwa kama mboga. Matunda ya tango mara nyingi zaidi ya 90% ya maji. [Citation inahitajika]
Maua na uchafuzi
 Mbegu chache za tango ni sehemu ya sherehe, maua huunda matunda yasiyo na mbegu bila uchafuzi. Uchafuzi wa mashamba haya huharibika ubora. Nchini Marekani, hizi hupandwa kwa kawaida katika maeneo ya kijani, ambapo nyuki hutolewa. Katika Ulaya, wao ni mzima nje katika mikoa fulani, na nyuki hutolewa kutoka maeneo haya.
 Magogo mengi ya tango, hata hivyo, yana mimea na yanahitaji kupamba rangi. Maelfu ya mizinga ya nyuki za nyuki hutolewa kila mwaka kwa mashamba ya tango kabla ya kupasuka kwa kusudi hili. Matango pia yanaweza kupikwa na blubebees na aina nyingine za nyuki. Matango mengi ambayo yanahitaji kupamba rangi ni ya kutofautiana, hivyo poleni kutoka kwenye mmea tofauti inahitajika kuunda mbegu na matunda. [1] Kuna baadhi ya cultivars zinazohusika na zinazohusiana na kilimo cha 'Lemon'. [1] Dalili za uchafuzi wa kutosha ni pamoja na mimba ya matunda na matunda mabaya. Maua ya rangi ya mviringo yanaweza kuzalisha matunda ambayo ni ya kijani na kuendeleza kawaida karibu na mwisho wa shina, lakini ni rangi ya njano na imeharibika katika mwisho wa maua.
 Kilimo cha jadi huzalisha maua ya kiume kwanza, kisha kike, katika idadi sawa. Magugu yaliyo karibu zaidi ya gynoecious huzalisha maua yote ya kike. Wanaweza kuwa na mimea ya pollenizer iliyoingizwa, na idadi ya nyuki kwa eneo la kitengo imeongezeka, lakini mabadiliko ya joto hushawishi maua ya kiume hata kwenye mimea hii, ambayo inaweza kuwa ya kutosha kwa ajili ya kupitisha mishipa kutokea. [1]
Maelezo ya Genomic ID ya genome ya NCBI 1639
Ploidy diploid
Ukubwa wa aina ya 323.99 Mb
Mitochondrion ya chombo iliyopangwa
Ukubwa wa viungo 244.82 Mb
Mwaka wa kukamilisha 2011
Genome
 Mnamo mwaka 2009, timu ya watafiti ya kimataifa ilitangaza kwamba walikuwa wametenganisha genome ya tango. [2]
Uzalishaji
Wazalishaji wa tano juu ya tango mwaka 2013
Uzalishaji wa Nchi, mamilioni ya tani
China 54.3
Uturuki 1.8
Iran 1.6
Urusi 1.1
Ukraine 1.0
Dunia 71,365,573
Chanzo: Shirika la Chakula na Kilimo (FAOSTAT) [3]
 Kulingana na Shirika la Chakula na Kilimo la Umoja wa Mataifa kwa tango na uzalishaji wa gherkin mwaka 2013, China ilizalisha 76% ya pato la kimataifa, ikifuatiwa na Uturuki, Iran, Urusi na Ukraine (meza).
Lishe
Tango, na peel, ghafi Thamani ya lishe kwa 100 g (3.5 oz)
Nishati 65 kJ (kcal 16)
Karodi
 3.63 g
Sugars 1.67
Fiber ya vyakula 0.5 g
Mafuta
 0.11 g
Protini
 0.65 g
Vitamini
Thiamine (B1)
(2%)
0.027 mg
Riboflavin (B2)
(3%)
0.033 mg
Niacin (B3)
(1%)
0.098 mg
Pantothenic asidi (B5)
(5%)
0.259 mg
Vitamini B6
(3%)
0.04 mg
Folate (B9)
(2%)
7 μg
Vitamini C
(3%)
2.8 mg
Vitamini K
(16%)
16.4 μg
Madini
Calcium 0.65 g
Vitamini
Thiamine (B1)
(2%)
0.027 mg
Riboflavin (B2)
(3%)
0.033 mg
Niacin (B3)
(1%)
0.098 mg
Pantothenic asidi (B5)
(5%)
0.259 mg
Vitamini B6
(3%)
0.04 mg
Folate (B9)
(2%)
7 μg
Vitamini C
(3%)
2.8 mg
Vitamini K
(16%)
16.4 μg
Madini
Calcium
(2%)
16 mg
Iron
(2%)
0.28 mg
Magnésiamu
(4%)
13 mg
Manganese
(4%)
0.079 mg
Phosphorus
(3%)
24 mg
Potasiamu
(3%)
147 mg
Sodiamu
(0%)
2 mg
Zinc
(2%)
0.2 mg
Wilaya wengine
Maji 95.23 g
Fluoride 1.3 μg
Unganisha kuingia kwa database ya USDA
 Asilimia ni karibu takriban kutumia mapendekezo ya Marekani kwa watu wazima.
 Katika huduma ya gramu 100, tango ghafi (na peel) ni maji ya 95%, hutoa kilojouli 67 (kilocalories 16) na hutoa maudhui ya chini ya virutubisho muhimu, kwa sababu inaonekana tu kwa vitamini K kwa asilimia 16 ya Thamani ya Kila siku (meza ).
Aina
Angalia pia: Orodha ya aina ya tango
 Katika kilimo cha kawaida, matango yanawekwa katika makundi matatu makuu ya kulima: "kupamba", "pickling", na "bila".
Kutafuta
Matango ya kukata
 Matango yaliyopandwa kula chakula huitwa matango ya slicing. Aina kuu za slicers hupandwa kwenye mizabibu na majani makubwa ambayo hutoa shading. [4] Wao hutumiwa hasa katika fomu isiyo ya rangi ya kijani, kwani fomu ya njano iliyoiva huwa kawaida na machungu. Vipande vilivyopandwa kwa kibiashara kwa soko la Amerika ya Kaskazini kwa kawaida ni zaidi, laini, sare zaidi katika rangi, na kuwa na ngozi kali zaidi. Slicers katika nchi nyingine ni ndogo na huwa na ngozi nyembamba, zaidi ya maridadi. Tango ndogo za kukata pia zinaweza kuchujwa.
Pickling
Matango ya Pickling
Makala kuu: Tango za Pickled
 Matango yanaweza kuchujwa kwa ladha na maisha zaidi ya rafu. Ingawa tango lolote linaweza kuchujwa, vifuniko vya biashara hufanywa kutoka kwa matango husingiwa kwa uwiano wa uwiano wa urefu na upepo na ukosefu wa voids katika mwili. Matango hayo yaliyotajwa kwa pickling, inayoitwa picklers, kukua hadi 7 hadi 10 cm (3 hadi 4 in) kwa muda mrefu na 2.5 cm (1 in) pana. Ikilinganishwa na slicers, picklers huwa na muda mfupi, mzito, chini ya umbo mara kwa mara, na huwa na ngozi nyekundu yenye vidogo vidogo vyenye nyeupe au nyeusi. Hazijawahi kushikamana. Rangi inaweza kutofautiana na rangi ya njano au rangi ya kijani. Matango ya Pickling wakati mwingine huuzwa safi kama matango ya "Kirby" au "Uhuru". Matango yaliyochapwa yanachapishwa kwenye brine au mchanganyiko wa siki na brine, ingawa si siki peke yake, mara kwa mara pamoja na viungo mbalimbali. Matango yaliyochaguliwa huitwa "pickles" nchini Marekani au "gherkins" au "mviringo" huko Uingereza, jina la mwisho lililokuwa la kawaida zaidi kaskazini mwa Uingereza na London, ambako linamaanisha matango makubwa ya siki iliyokatwa kwa kawaida katika samaki Na maduka ya chip.
Burupu
Sio kuchanganyikiwa na Mbegu za Burpe.
Tango la Isfahan lenye burpless awali kutoka Iran
 Tango zisizopigwa na matunda ni nzuri na zina ngozi nyembamba kuliko aina nyingine za tango, na zinajulikana kuwa rahisi kuponda na kuwa na ladha nzuri. Wanaweza kukua kwa muda mrefu kama meta mbili (0.61 m). Wao ni karibu bila mbegu, na wana ngozi nyeti. Mara nyingi hupandwa katika vitalu vya kijani, matango haya ya parthenocarpic mara nyingi hupatikana katika masoko ya mboga, hupunguka kwa plastiki. Wakati mwingine huchangiwa kama wasio na mbegu au wasio na burudani, kwa sababu mbegu na ngozi ya aina nyingine za matango zinasemekana kuwapa watu gesi. [5]
 Aina nyingine za cultivar zinauzwa kibiashara:
'Dosakai' ni turu, njano, tango kuonekana kwenye soko huko Guntur, India
 Rom na ladha
 Watu wengi huripoti harufu nzuri, karibu na maji ya harufu ya melon na ladha ya matango kutokana na misombo inayoitwa (E, Z) -nona-2,6-dienal, (Z) -2-nonenal na (E) -2-nonenal. [9] Tamu ya uchungu kidogo ya matango hutokea kwa cucurbitacins. [10]
Historia ya kilimo
 Matango yaliyotokea India, ambapo aina nyingi nyingi zimezingatiwa, [11] [12] [13] kutoka Cucumis hystrix. [11] [14] Imekuwa ikipandwa kwa angalau miaka 3,000, na labda ililetwa kwa sehemu nyingine za Ulaya na Wagiriki au Warumi. Kumbukumbu za kilimo cha tango huonekana nchini Ufaransa katika karne ya 9, England katika karne ya 14, na katika Amerika Kaskazini na katikati ya karne ya 16.
Kilimo cha awali
Tango ya njano ya Hindi
 Tango zimeorodheshwa kati ya vyakula vya Uri ya zamani, na hadithi ya Gilgamesh inaelezea watu wanaokula matango. [Vyanzo vingine] Vyanzo vingine [nani?] Pia wanasema kuwa ilitolewa katika kale ya Thrace, na kwa hakika ni sehemu ya vyakula vya kisasa nchini Bulgaria Na Uturuki, sehemu ambazo hufanya hali hiyo ya kale. Matango yanasemwa katika Biblia kama moja ya vyakula ambavyo Waisraeli walipokuliwa huko Misri. [15] Kutoka India, imeenea kwa Ugiriki (ambako ilikuwa inaitwa "σίκυον", síkyon) na Italia (ambapo Warumi walipenda sana mazao), na baadaye nchini China.
 Robert Daniel, akizungumza juu ya nusu ya pili ya karne ya tatu AD, ameamua kutambua neno lisilojulikana, ολγιττα, na al-qitta ya Kiarabu, neno la kawaida kwa tango. [16]
 Kulingana na Pliny Mzee (The Natural History, Kitabu XIX, Sura ya 23), Wagiriki wa kale walikua matango, na kulikuwa na aina tofauti katika Italia, Afrika, na Moesia.
Dola ya Kirumi
 Kulingana na Pliny, Mfalme Tiberius alikuwa na tango kwenye meza yake kila siku wakati wa majira ya joto na baridi. Warumi iliripotiwa kutumika mbinu za bandia (sawa na mfumo wa chafu) za kuongezeka kuwa na inapatikana kwa meza yake kila siku ya mwaka. "Kwa hakika, hakuwa na bila ya hayo, kwa kuwa alikuwa ameinua vitanda vilivyofanywa kwa muafaka juu ya magurudumu, kwa njia ambayo matango yalihamia na kufunuliwa kwa joto kamili la jua, wakati, wakati wa baridi, waliondolewa, na kuwekwa chini ya Ulinzi wa frames glazed na 'mirrorstone'. "[17] 'Mirrorstone' ni tafsiri halisi ya Pliny's 'lapis specularis', inaaminika kuwa ni mica ya karatasi.
 Inasema, pia walikulima katika nyumba za tango ambazo zimefunikwa na kitambaa cha mafuta kilichojulikana kama "specularia". [18]
 Pliny Mzee anaelezea matunda ya Kiitaliano kama mdogo sana, labda kama gherkin, akielezea kama tango ya mwitu mno mdogo kuliko yale yaliyopandwa. Pliny pia anaelezea maandalizi ya dawa inayojulikana kama elaterium, ingawa baadhi ya wasomi [ambao?] Wanaamini alikuwa akimaanisha Ecballium elaterium, inayojulikana katika nyakati za awali za Linnean kama "Cucumis silvestris" au "Cucumis asininus" ("tango za mwitu" au " Tango tunda "), aina tofauti na matango ya kawaida. [19] Pliny pia anaandika juu ya aina nyingine kadhaa ya tango, ikiwa ni pamoja na tango zilizolima, [20] na tiba kutoka kwa aina tofauti (9 kutoka kwa kulimwa, 5 kutoka "anguine", na 26 kutoka "mwitu"). Warumi wanasemekana kuwa wametumia matango ya kutibu maumivu ya kupigwa, macho mabaya, na kutisha panya. Wanawake wanaotamani kwa watoto walivaa viuno vyao. Walipelekwa pia na wajukuu, na kutupwa mbali wakati mtoto alizaliwa


URL: https://ne.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AA%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%A1%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%BE:%E0%A4%B8%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%AE%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%A8%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%AF_%E0%A4%85%E0%A4%B8%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B5%E0%A5%80%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%B0%E0%A5%8B%E0%A4%95%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%A4%E0%A4%BF

Content: विकिपिडिया एक वेब आधारित सहयोग-प्राप्त ज्ञानकोष हो,अर्थात्, यो मानव ज्ञानको साधारण संसाधन विकसित गर्नका लागि व्यक्तिहरु तथा समूहहरुको एक स्वैच्छिक संगठन हो। यस परियोजनाको संरचना अंतर्जाल संयोजनका साथ कुनै पनि व्यक्तिलाई यसका सामाग्रीहरुलाई परिवर्तन गर्ने अनुमति दिइन्छ। कृपया यो ध्यान राख्नुहोस् कि यो आवश्यक छैन कि यहाँ पाइएको सामाग्रीको विशेषज्ञहरु द्वारा सही तथा विश्वसनीय जानकारी दिनका लागि समीक्षा गरिएको छ।
 यसको यो तात्पर्य होइन कि विकिपिडियामा मूल्यवान तथा सही जानकारी पाइदैन ; अधिकांशतः यो सही नै हुनेछ। हुनत,   कुनै पनि लेखको सामाग्रीको हटाउन सकिन्छ, उत्पातको शिकार हुन सक्छ अथवा यस्तो व्यक्ति द्वारा बदलिन सक्छ  जो उ संगत क्षेत्रमा ज्ञानको अवस्थाले भिन्न विचार राख्न सक्छ। ध्यान दिनुहोस कि अधिक तर अन्य विकिपिडिया तथा सन्दर्भ कार्यहरुमा पनि   हुन्छन।


URL: https://ht.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedya:Av%C3%A8tisman_jeneral

Content: Wikipedya se yon sit entènèt ki ofri yon ansiklopedi kolaboratif ki gen kontni anba "lisans gratis". Wikipedya alimante ak yon asosyasyon moun volontè ak gwoup k ap travay ki vle bati ansanm yon resous konplè nan konesans moun. Estrikti pwojè sa a menm  pèmèt nenpòt moun ki gen yon koneksyon entènèt modifye kontni li yo. Se konsa, ou dwe konnen ke se pa tout bagay isit la ke moun ki gen ekspètiz ladan l analize pou ba ou enfòmasyon konplè, egzat ak serye.
 Sa pa vle di tou ke ou pa pral jwenn enfòmasyon egzat ak valab sou Wikipedya. Kèk tan w ap jwenn. Sepandan, Wikipedya pa garanti validite, presizyon, konplè oswa enpòtans enfòmasyon ki sou sit li a. Kontni chak atik gen dwa te modifye, vandalize oswa chanje pa yon moun ki gen opinyon ki pa koresponn ak eta konesans nan domèn konsène yo, oswa ak netralite ki nesesè.
 Kominote ki asosye ak Wikipedya toujou ap chèche chwazi epi pote vèsyon ki fyab nan atik yo. Pou fè sa, li sèvi ak zouti tankou  , paj swiv ak   pou kontwole evolisyon kontni aktyèl la ak chanjman li yo. Sepandan, Wikipedya pa revize kanmarad yo. Nenpòt lektè ka korije erè oswa patisipe nan yon  , men lektè sa yo pa gen okenn obligasyon legal pou yo fè sa, e se poutèt sa tout enfòmasyon ki isit yo pa garanti okenn fyabilite pou okenn rezon oswa itilizasyon. Menm atik ki te verifye pa yon revizyon parèy enfòmèl oswa otorize atravè yon pwosesis ki mennen nan yon  , Lè sa a, yo te kapab modifye yon fason ki pa apwopriye jis anvan ou te edite yo. Se poutèt sa li rekòmande pou toujou kenbe yon   atik yo.
 Kontni ki pwopoze la yo gratis, san okenn obligasyon ni isit ni  lòtbò, epi pa gen okenn kalite akò oswa kontra ki etabli ant ou menm ak pwopriyetè yo oswa itilizatè yo sou sit sa a, mèt sèvè k ap jere yo a, kontribitè endividyèl Wikipedya, nenpòt ki moun. administratè pwojè yo, biwokrat yo, devlopè yo, administratè sistèm yo, oswa nenpòt lòt moun ki "konekte nenpòt fason" ak pwojè sa a oswa nenpòt lòt ti pwojè moun ki ka sijè a plent dirèk ou yo.
 Ou gen yon lisans limite pou kopye tout oswa yon pati nan kontni sit sa a; sa pa kreye oswa vle di okenn responsablite kontra oswa ekstra-kontra ak Wikipedya oswa nenpòt nan ajan li yo, manm, òganizatè, patisipan yo, oswa lòt itilizatè.
Pa gen   konsènan itilizasyon oswa modifikasyon enfòmasyon sa yo pi lwen pase Lisans Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported  . Menm jan an tou, si yon moun ta chanje, modifye, modifye oswa efase nenpòt enfòmasyon ou ta mete sou Wikipedya oswa nenpòt nan pwojè ki gen rapò ak li yo, "pa gen moun ki responsab sou Wikipedya sèlman moun ki fè chanjman yo.
 Mak komèsyal, mak sèvis, mak kolektif, dwa konsepsyon, dwa pèsonalite oswa dwa menm ki sanble jan yo mansyone yo, itilize oswa site nan atik Wikipedya yo se e yo rete zafè pwopriyetè respektif yo. Itilizasyon yo isit la pa vle di ke ou ta ka sèvi ak yo pou nenpòt lòt bagay ke enfòmasyon (oswa rezon ki sanble) jan otè orijinal yo nan atik Wikipedya sa yo te vle di anba Lisans Creative Commons BY-SA-3.0. Sòf si yo espesifye otreman, Wikimedya ak sit Wikimedya yo pa andose oswa afilye ak okenn nan moun ki gen dwa yo, e kòm sa yo, yo pa kapab bay Wikipedya okenn lisans pou itilize nenpòt materyèl ki pwoteje pa dwa sa yo. Itilizasyon ou menm dwa sa yo, oswa lòt pwopriyete entanjib sa yo, se sèlman sou pwòp risk ou.
 Piblikasyon enfòmasyon ki sou Wikipedya ka pa konfòme ak lwa aplikab nan peyi kote w ap gade enfòmasyon sa a. Baz done Wikipedya a estoke sou yon sèvè nan Eta   nan  , epi operasyon li an konfòm ak lwa lokal ak federal Ozetazini. Wikipedya pa adrese okenn peyi an patikilye. Lwa ki aplikab nan peyi w gen dwa pa pèmèt pwoteksyon sa a, oswa yo ka pa pèmèt piblikasyon oswa distribisyon diskou sa a. Wikipedya pa ankouraje okenn vyolasyon lwa a epi yo pa kapab responsab okenn vyolasyon nenpòt lwa, kit se paske ou gen rapò ak domèn sa a oswa kit ou itlize, repwodui oswa repibliye enfòmasyon ki nan sit sa a.
 Si w bezwen konsèy espesifik (egzanp medikal, legal, finansye oswa jesyon risk), tanpri konsilte yon pwofesyonèl ki konpetan oswa ki konnen ki gen konesans nan domèn sa a.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:DownloadAsPdf&page=Wikipedia%3AGeneral_disclaimer&action=show-download-screen

Content: 

URL: https://ku.wikipedia.org/wiki/W%C3%AEk%C3%AEpediya:Ferexetname

Content: Ev malpera ji   tê wêşandin, qedykirî li cem   di bin nimrê  . Weqfa Wikimedia di bi heqên heremê   di DYE da ye. "Serokî" vê weqfê di bin rûpelê   kane were dîtin. Niha ew kesa   e.
 Ji bo pirsan ya xastinên interview'an bi kesên (bikarhênerên) Wîkîpediyayê kurdî ra, hûn dikarin di rûpelê   înformasyonan ji xwe ra derxin û e-nameyan bişînin.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:General_disclaimer&printable=yes

Content: 
 
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate, or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will. However,   The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized, or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works  .
 Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content. However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever. Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops, or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers, or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify, or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, or similar rights that are mentioned, used, or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated, Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by, nor affiliated with, any of the holders of any such rights, and as such, Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or recently-deceased. The use of images of living or recently-deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.  
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution. Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain, or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management), please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://nds-nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:V%C3%B6%C3%A4rbehold

Content: Disse webstee wörden an-ebeujen deur de   (Wikimedia-stichting), in-eschreven bie   onder t nummer N03000005323. De Wikimedia Foundation is n stichting naor t recht van de Amerikaanse staot  . De bedenker van Wikipedie is  .
 Disse   wörden uuteindelik eschreven deur t publiek. Allewel zwat iederene die meedöt probeert um naor sekuur informatieve artikels te schrieven, kan der, wat dat de inhoud dervan angeet, gien garansie egeven wörden. Iederene die zien eigen kennelik as deskundig ziet, mag wiezigingen in de tekste anbrengen. Wel zal n dudelike fout in t algemeen aordig gauw opvallen en deur de aandere deelnemers verbeterd wörden. Zo as de ervaoring van de deelnemers leert, is der de neiging dat artikels alsmar langerder en nauwkeuriger wörden; aof en toe zal n terogval kunnen véúrkoemen.
 t Is dan oek verstaandig um naost disse ensyklopedie oek aandere naoslagwarken of spesialistiese boeken te raodplegen.
 A'j n   zien, ma'j t voort verbeteren, of - a'j niet zovere gaon willen - n opmarking hierover maken op de   die bie elke pagina heurt. We willen joe oek grege anbussen um dit te doon.
 De vriewilligers die disse ensyklopedie schrieven (en dat is t publiek, dus oek jiezelf) bin niet ansprakelik veur de juustheid van de egeven informasie. Ze kunnen zelfs niet garanderen dat de auteurs zörgvuldig te wark egaon bin bie t formuleren van de artikels. Gebruuk van de informasie is geheel vrie, mer wel op eigen risiko.
 Der bin gebrukers ( ) die extra meugelikheen op technies nivo hebben op disse webstee. Zo as t vortdoon van pagina's, beveiligen van pagina's en t ontnemen van schriefrechten an gebrukers. Dit bin meugelikheen die gewone gebrukers niet hebben. Disse groep vriewilligers bin niet de webmeisters mer eerder de huusbewaorders van Wikipedie. t Is n uutvoerende funksie. t Dagelikse bestuur de nds-nl-wiki geet feitelik uut van de gemeenschap van de nds-nl-wiki. 
 Op juridies nivo is de   de eindverantwoordelike. 
 As der volgens joe n probleem is, neem dan eerst kontakt op mit beheerders van de nds-nl-wiki. A'j n klachte sturen willen dan kan dat in t Engels, naor:
 Alle teksten op Wikipedie vallen onder de  -lisensie. A'j n stuk zien dat argens aanders van overeneumen is, zonder dat der toestemming van de auteursrechtbezitters egeven is, meld t dan of wiezig de tekste zelf.


URL: https://ks.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%D9%90%DA%A9%DB%8C%D9%96%D9%BE%DB%8C%D9%96%DA%88%DB%8C%D8%A7:%D8%B9%D9%8E%D9%88%D9%B2%D9%85%DB%8C_%D8%A7%D9%90%D8%B8%DB%81%D8%A7%D8%B1%D9%90_%D9%84%D8%A7_%D8%AA%D9%88%D9%84%D9%8F%D9%82%DB%8C

Content: 
 وِکیٖپیٖڈیا چھُ اَکھ آنلایِن رَضاکار، آزاد انسایكلوپیڈیا یَتھ مَنٛز ہَر کانٛہہ ہیٚکہِ اؠڈِٹ کٔرِتھ۔ وِکیٖپیٖڈیاہَس چھُ کانٛہہ تہِ ہیٚکَن تَبدیلی أنِتھ۔ یہِ گَژھِ یاد تھاوُن زِ پرٛتھ کانٛہہ مَضموٗن چھُنہٕ مٲہِر گَشتہٕ کٔرِتھ آسان تہٕ یِمَن مَضموٗنَن مَنٛز ہیٚکہِ غَلَط مَعلوٗمات آسِتھ۔
 اَمیُٛک مَطلَب چھُنہٕ زِ وِکیٖپیٖڈیاہَس پؠٹھ چھُ خألی غلط مولوٗماتھ آسان بٔلکہِ چھُ وِکیٖپیٖڈیاہَس پؠٹھ واریاہ اَصٕل مولوٗماتھ تہِ دَسیاب۔ کُنہِ تہِ مَضموٗنُک مَواد ہیٚکہِ بَدلاونہٕ آمُت، خَراب کَرنہٕ 
یا آمُت۔


URL: https://ku.wikipedia.org/wiki/W%C3%AEk%C3%AEpediya:Ferexetname

Content: Ev malpera ji   tê wêşandin, qedykirî li cem   di bin nimrê  . Weqfa Wikimedia di bi heqên heremê   di DYE da ye. "Serokî" vê weqfê di bin rûpelê   kane were dîtin. Niha ew kesa   e.
 Ji bo pirsan ya xastinên interview'an bi kesên (bikarhênerên) Wîkîpediyayê kurdî ra, hûn dikarin di rûpelê   înformasyonan ji xwe ra derxin û e-nameyan bişînin.


URL: https://nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Algemeen_voorbehoud

Content: 

URL: https://ka.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E1%83%95%E1%83%98%E1%83%99%E1%83%98%E1%83%9E%E1%83%94%E1%83%93%E1%83%98%E1%83%90:%E1%83%9E%E1%83%90%E1%83%A1%E1%83%A3%E1%83%AE%E1%83%98%E1%83%A1%E1%83%9B%E1%83%92%E1%83%94%E1%83%91%E1%83%9A%E1%83%9D%E1%83%91%E1%83%98%E1%83%A1_%E1%83%A3%E1%83%90%E1%83%A0%E1%83%A7%E1%83%9D%E1%83%A4%E1%83%90

Content: ,  -  თავისუფალი შიგთავსით, არის მოხალისე  პიროვნებათა და ჯგუფთა საზოგადოება, რომლებიც ქმნიან კაცობრიობის ცოდნის საერთო საცავს.  მისი სტრუქტურიდან გამომდინარე ვიკიპედიის რედაქტირება   და   მქონე ნებისმიერ პიროვნებას შეუძლია. აქედან გამომდინარე, გთხოვთ გაითვალისწინოთ, რომ მოყვანილი ინფორმაცია შესაძლოა არ იყოს გადამოწმებული პროფესიონალთა მიერ. 
 არ შეიძლება იმის თქმა, რომ ვიკიპედიაში არ არის ზუსტი და საჭირო ინფორმაცია, თუმცა თქვენ უნდა გაითვალისწინოთ, რომ    არ არის გამორიცხული, რომ თქვენთვის საინტერესო ინფორმაცია იყო შეცვლილი, გაფუჭებული ან დაწერილი იმ პიროვნების მიერ, რომლის მოსაზრება განსხვავდება ზოგადად მიღებული მოსაზრებისგან. 
 ჩვენ ყოველთვის ვეძებთ მაქსიმალურად სწორი და გამართული სტატიების შემოწმებისა და გამორჩევის გზებს.  ჩვენი უდიდესი მიღწევაა   , თუმცა ისინიც კი შესაძლოა გააფუჭეს რამდენიმე წამის წინ სანამ თქვენ წაიკითხავდით.  
 გთხოვთ გაითვალისწინოთ, რომ ინფორმაცია, რომელსაც აქ იხილავთ, განთავსებულია თავისუფლად, როგორც კეთილი სურვილის გამოვლენა. ინფორმაციის მიმწოდებლებსა და ვიკიპედიის მფლობელებს, ადმინისტრატორებს, ოპერატორებს  ან   და მკითხველებს შორის არ არის გაფორმებული არანაირი ხელშეკრულება. აქედან გამომდინარე, ვიკიპედიის შიგთავსი ვერ გახდება იურიდიული პრეტენზიების საკითხი. თქვენ გაქვთ ვიკიპედიის კოპირების უფლება, თუმცა არც ეს გულისხმობს რაიმე იურიდიულ პასუხისმგებლობას - თქვენ იყენებთ ინფორმაციას საკუთარი სურვილით.
 ნებისმიერი სავაჭრო ნიშანი, მარკები, ორგანიზაციების, ნივთების სახელები, დიზაინი და ვიკიპედიაში გამოყენებეულ სხვა არათავისუფალი ინფორმაციაზე საავტორო უფლებებს ფლობენ მათი კანონიერი მფლობელები. ვიკიპედიის შინაარსი ვრცელდება   ლიცენზიით, და თქვენ შეგიძლიათ მისი გამოყენება მხოლოდ ამ ლიცენზიის პირობების თანახმად. გახსოვდეთ, რომ თქვენ  
 გთხოვთ ასევე გაითვალისწინოთ, რომ ზოგი ვიკიპედია განლაგებულია   ( ) და ემორჩილება ამერიკის კანონმდებლობას. თქვენი ქვეყნის კანონებმა შესაძლოა არ განსაზღვრონ სიტყვის თავისუფლება ისე ფართოდ, როგორც ამერიკის კანონმდებლობამ და    .
 , რადგანაც არის დამოუკიდებელი თავისუფალი საზოგადოება, შექმნილი საგანმანათლებლო, კულტურული და ინფორმაციული რესურსის შესაქმნელად. ინფორმაცია ვიკიპედიაში ვრცელდება   ლიცენზიით.
 გმადლობთ, რომ დახარჯეთ დრო ამ გვერდის წასაკითხად. ვიმედოვნებთ, რომ ვიკიპედია დაგიტოვებთ მხოლოდ კარგ შთაბეჭდილებებს.


URL: https://ka.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E1%83%95%E1%83%98%E1%83%99%E1%83%98%E1%83%9E%E1%83%94%E1%83%93%E1%83%98%E1%83%90:%E1%83%9E%E1%83%90%E1%83%A1%E1%83%A3%E1%83%AE%E1%83%98%E1%83%A1%E1%83%9B%E1%83%92%E1%83%94%E1%83%91%E1%83%9A%E1%83%9D%E1%83%91%E1%83%98%E1%83%A1_%E1%83%A3%E1%83%90%E1%83%A0%E1%83%A7%E1%83%9D%E1%83%A4%E1%83%90

Content: ,  -  თავისუფალი შიგთავსით, არის მოხალისე  პიროვნებათა და ჯგუფთა საზოგადოება, რომლებიც ქმნიან კაცობრიობის ცოდნის საერთო საცავს.  მისი სტრუქტურიდან გამომდინარე ვიკიპედიის რედაქტირება   და   მქონე ნებისმიერ პიროვნებას შეუძლია. აქედან გამომდინარე, გთხოვთ გაითვალისწინოთ, რომ მოყვანილი ინფორმაცია შესაძლოა არ იყოს გადამოწმებული პროფესიონალთა მიერ. 
 არ შეიძლება იმის თქმა, რომ ვიკიპედიაში არ არის ზუსტი და საჭირო ინფორმაცია, თუმცა თქვენ უნდა გაითვალისწინოთ, რომ    არ არის გამორიცხული, რომ თქვენთვის საინტერესო ინფორმაცია იყო შეცვლილი, გაფუჭებული ან დაწერილი იმ პიროვნების მიერ, რომლის მოსაზრება განსხვავდება ზოგადად მიღებული მოსაზრებისგან. 
 ჩვენ ყოველთვის ვეძებთ მაქსიმალურად სწორი და გამართული სტატიების შემოწმებისა და გამორჩევის გზებს.  ჩვენი უდიდესი მიღწევაა   , თუმცა ისინიც კი შესაძლოა გააფუჭეს რამდენიმე წამის წინ სანამ თქვენ წაიკითხავდით.  
 გთხოვთ გაითვალისწინოთ, რომ ინფორმაცია, რომელსაც აქ იხილავთ, განთავსებულია თავისუფლად, როგორც კეთილი სურვილის გამოვლენა. ინფორმაციის მიმწოდებლებსა და ვიკიპედიის მფლობელებს, ადმინისტრატორებს, ოპერატორებს  ან   და მკითხველებს შორის არ არის გაფორმებული არანაირი ხელშეკრულება. აქედან გამომდინარე, ვიკიპედიის შიგთავსი ვერ გახდება იურიდიული პრეტენზიების საკითხი. თქვენ გაქვთ ვიკიპედიის კოპირების უფლება, თუმცა არც ეს გულისხმობს რაიმე იურიდიულ პასუხისმგებლობას - თქვენ იყენებთ ინფორმაციას საკუთარი სურვილით.
 ნებისმიერი სავაჭრო ნიშანი, მარკები, ორგანიზაციების, ნივთების სახელები, დიზაინი და ვიკიპედიაში გამოყენებეულ სხვა არათავისუფალი ინფორმაციაზე საავტორო უფლებებს ფლობენ მათი კანონიერი მფლობელები. ვიკიპედიის შინაარსი ვრცელდება   ლიცენზიით, და თქვენ შეგიძლიათ მისი გამოყენება მხოლოდ ამ ლიცენზიის პირობების თანახმად. გახსოვდეთ, რომ თქვენ  
 გთხოვთ ასევე გაითვალისწინოთ, რომ ზოგი ვიკიპედია განლაგებულია   ( ) და ემორჩილება ამერიკის კანონმდებლობას. თქვენი ქვეყნის კანონებმა შესაძლოა არ განსაზღვრონ სიტყვის თავისუფლება ისე ფართოდ, როგორც ამერიკის კანონმდებლობამ და    .
 , რადგანაც არის დამოუკიდებელი თავისუფალი საზოგადოება, შექმნილი საგანმანათლებლო, კულტურული და ინფორმაციული რესურსის შესაქმნელად. ინფორმაცია ვიკიპედიაში ვრცელდება   ლიცენზიით.
 გმადლობთ, რომ დახარჯეთ დრო ამ გვერდის წასაკითხად. ვიმედოვნებთ, რომ ვიკიპედია დაგიტოვებთ მხოლოდ კარგ შთაბეჭდილებებს.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:QrCode&url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FWikipedia%3AGeneral_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://he.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D7%95%D7%99%D7%A7%D7%99%D7%A4%D7%93%D7%99%D7%94:%D7%94%D7%91%D7%94%D7%A8%D7%95%D7%AA_%D7%9E%D7%A9%D7%A4%D7%98%D7%99%D7%95%D7%AA

Content: להלן מספר הבהרות שחשוב לקחת לתשומת לב בעת השימוש ב . רשות העיון ב  מותנית בידיעתך את התנאים הללו ובהסכמתך להם.
 נודה לך אם תקדיש מזמנך לשם קריאת דף זה, ואנו מקווים שתיהנה מהחוויה שמעניקה לך  .
 אנא ודא שאתה מבין כי המידע המסופק כאן מובא בצורה חופשית ובחינם, ולא נערך כל הסכם או חוזה בינך לבין הבעלים או המשתמשים של אתר זה, בעלי השרתים שבהם מאוחסנת האנציקלופדיה, התורמים הפרטיים לוויקיפדיה, כל מנהל של הפרויקטים, טכנאים או כל אדם אחר שקשור בכל דרך לפרויקט הזה או לפרויקטים אחרים החשופים לטענותיך נגדם באופן ישיר. מוענק לך   להעתיק מתוך אתר זה טקסט, וכן תמונות אשר צוין עליהן שהן להפצה חופשית (בניגוד לתמונות הנמצאות באתר על פי כללי ה  ותמונות אחרות מוגבלות רישיון); רישיון זה לא יוצר או מרמז לכל אחריות המעוגנת בחוזה או בתוספת לו בשום חלק של   או של סוכניה, חבריה, יזמיה או כל משתמש אחר.
 
 
 המידע הזה מובא לך בחינם ו  כל הסכם או הבנה בינך לבין   בנוגע לשימוש שלך או כל שינוי שלך במידע זה מעבר לרישיון של   ו ; כמו כן, אף אחד ב  אינו אחראי לגבי כל שינוי, עריכה, הוספה או הסרה של כל מידע, שאתה עלול לכתוב ב  או בכל פרויקט אחר הנקשר בה.
 
 
 
 ויקיפדיה נערכת על ידי הציבור הרחב של משתמשי האינטרנט ולכן תיתכנה השחתות הן של מלל והן של תמונות. אין ויקיפדיה אחראית להשחתות אלה, ונעשה כל מאמץ על מנת לתקנן.
 באופן עקרוני, ויקיפדיה מאפשרת העלאת תמונות או כתיבת תוכן אשר אינו מפר את כלליה ואת חוקי המדינה; כך מאופשרת העלאת כל תוכן מקורי בעל ערך אנציקלופדי, אשר ניתן לאשש אותו ואשר אינו מהווה הפרה של זכויות יוצרים ומבצעים. הפרות של כלל זה הן השחתה, וויקיפדיה עושה כל מאמץ למנוע אותן.
 יש לזכור כי ויקיפדיה היא גוף התנדבותי, וככזה, ייתכן שייארך זמן מה בטרם תתוקן ההשחתה. אין ויקיפדיה אחראית לכל נזק שייגרם בפרק זמן זה.
 ויקיפדיה היא אנציקלופדיה צעירה אשר נמצאת עדיין בהתהוותה, ולכן ייתכנו בערכים שגיאות, נקיטות עמדה, סתירות, או אי התאמות עם הכללים לעיל.
 מהיותה של ויקיפדיה התנדבותית, אין היא אחראית לכל נזק שייגרם בשל הסתמכות על הערכים, ובמידה ומתגלה הפרה של הכללים, תעשה כל מאמץ לתקן את הערך.
  היא   בעלת תוכן פתוח ומקוון; מיזם התנדבותי של קבוצות ויחידים, השוקדים לפיתוח מאגר משותף של הידע האנושי. המבנה שלה מאפשר לכל פרט בעל גישה ל  ול  ה-  לערוך את התוכן הנמצא בה.
 עם כל הרצון הטוב של הו , הם עשויים לטעות. אנא קחו בחשבון שהמידע המופיע כאן, לא בהכרח נכתב או נבדק על ידי מומחים בתחומם, בעלי הידע הנדרש כדי להעניק לך מידע מושלם, מדויק או אמין לגבי כל נושא אליו מתייחסים הערכים ב .
 נחטא לאמת אם נאמר, שלא תוכל למצוא הרבה מידע בעל ערך ומדויק ב , אך למרות זאת עליך לזכור, ש , מטבעה,   להתחייב לתקפות ונכונות המידע המובא בה. המידע עשוי להיערך, להשתנות, ואף להינזק על ידי מי שהדעה שלו לא תואמת לידע המקובל בתחום מסוים, שאתה מתעניין ללמוד אודותיו.
 אנחנו מחפשים דרכים כדי לבחור ולאשר גרסאות יותר אמינות של ערכים, אבל עדיין ללא כל אחריות.
 
 
 ראו בהמשך הבהרות ספציפיות לגבי תחומי הרפואה והמשפט.
 ויקיפדיה כוללת נושאים רפואיים רבים; למרות זאת,   שהמידע בהם נכון. אין שום ביטחון שכל משפט בערך הנוגע בנושאים רפואיים הינו אמת, נכון או מדויק. אפילו אם נקבעת עובדה רפואית נכונה, ייתכן שהיא לא תהיה מתאימה לגביך או לגבי הסימפטומים שלך.
 המידע הרפואי אותו נותנת   הוא, במקרה הטוב, בעל אופן כללי ואינו יכול להוות תחליף לעצת  , כלומר, רופא מורשה, אחות, רוקח או כל אדם אחר מסוג זה.   אינה רופא.
 אף אחד מהתורמים, מפעילי מערכת, מפתחים או נותני החסות של ויקיפדיה או אף אחד אחר הקשור בדרך כלשהי לוויקיפדיה אינו יכול לקחת אחריות על התוצאות או השלכות של כל ניסיון להשתמש או לאמץ משהו מן האינפורמציה או הדיס־אינפורמציה המוצגים באתר זה.
 
 מובן שאתם מוזמנים לתרום לערכים ב  או   ואתם יכולים לעשות שימוש בכל חומר שתמצאו כאן תחת   ו .
 ויקיפדיה מכילה ערכים בנושאים משפטיים רבים, אולם מאחר שמדובר באנציקלופדיה חופשית, ייתכנו אי דיוקים. אין להסתמך על ערכים אלה כאל מידע משפטי מדויק.
ייתכנו שינויים בדין החל ממדינה למדינה, וכן ייתכנו שינויים בחקיקה ובפסיקה של כל מדינה ומדינה. ערכים יכולים להיות מבוססים על המצב המשפטי ששרר בעת הכנתם, אולם עובדה מסוימת, תקדים חדש, או הלך רוח שונה בבתי המשפט, עשויים לשנות את המצב, ואף להפוך אותו לחלוטין.
 המידע המצוי בוויקיפדיה הוא מידע כללי, ואין בו כדי להחליף מידע הניתן על ידי בעל מקצוע. על המעוניינים בייעוץ משפטי פרטני לפנות לעורך דין העוסק בתחום, ואין ויקיפדיה אחראית לכל נזק או תוצאה שתיגרם בעקבות הסתמכות על המידע המופיע בה.
 כל התוכן המצוי בוויקיפדיה אינו מהווה ייעוץ משפטי כהגדרתו בחוק, ואינו מתיימר להיות ייעוץ כזה.
 אנא נקוט בכל האמצעים הדרושים כדי לוודא, שכל מידע, שאתה מקבל מ  נכון ומאומת.
 אם יש הצעות כלשהן בנוגע לפעילויות מסוכנות, בלתי-חוקיות או לא מוסריות, זכור שכולם יכולים לכתוב מידע זה ב , והם עשויים להיות לא מתאימים בכדי לספק עבורך את המידע, שנודע לך לגביו צורך באמצעי זהירות הולמים, או בצעדים שבהם אתה יכול לנקוט כדי למנוע פציעה, נזק גופני או כל נזק אחר לעצמך, ברכוש או מוניטין.
 אנא הייה מודע לכך שכל מידע שאתה עשוי למצוא בוויקיפדיה עלול להיות לא מדויק, מטעה, מסוכן או בלתי חוקי.
 חובה לבדוק ולאמת כל פרט מידע הנמצא בוויקיפדיה, והאחריות בגין שימוש במידע ותוצאותיו מוטלת כולה על הקורא ועליו בלבד, לכן, האימות העצמאי שלך מומלץ ביותר.
 אם אתה זקוק לייעוץ ספציפי (למשל, רפואי, משפטי, ניהול סיכונים) אנא היוועץ במומחה, שהוא בעל רישיון או בעל ידע בתחום המבוקש.
 אנא שים לב, שהמידע הנמצא כאן עשוי לעבור על חוקיה של המדינה או של תחום השיפוט שבו אתה נמצא בעודך צופה במידע זה.   לא מעודדת עבירה על שום חוק שהוא, אבל מאחר שמידע זה מאוחסן על שרת במדינת   שב , הוא מתוחזק בהתאם להגנות המורשות כולן תחת   ותחת   של  .
 החוקים במדינתך עשויים שלא להכיר בחופש הדיבור בתור חוק של   או של העקרונות שבמגילת האו"ם, ולכן במצב שכזה, " " איננה יכולה להיות אחראית לגבי כל עבירה פוטנציאלית על חוקים שכאלו, שאתה יכול לעשות באמצעות קישור לדומיין זה או שימוש של המידע המובא כאן בכל דרך, אמצעי או מובן אחר.
 מטרתה של ויקיפדיה היא לשמש אוסף של מידע אנושי, וככזה מצויים בה ערכים רבים הכתובים בהתנדבות על ידי כותבים רבים.
חלק מהערכים יכולים להיחשב כפוגעניים, או בוטים על ידי חלק מהקוראים.
על הכותבים להימנע מלכתוב בצורה פוגענית וכן להמנע מלהעלות תמונות אשר יכולות להיחשב כפוגעניות, אבל אין ויקיפדיה אחראית לכל נזק אשר יכול להיגרם עקב עיון בערכים או בתמונות המופיעים בוויקיפדיה.
 ויקיפדיה נערכת על ידי הציבור הרחב של משתמשי האינטרנט ולכן תיתכנה השחתות הן של מלל והן של תמונות. אין ויקיפדיה אחראית להשחתות אלה, ועושה כל מאמץ על מנת לתקנן.
 כעיקרון ויקיפדיה מאפשרת העלאת תמונות או כתיבת תוכן אשר אינו מפר את הכללים שלה, ואת חוקי המדינה, כך יאפשר העלאת כל תוכן מקורי בעל ערך אנציקלופדי, אשר ניתן לתומכו, ואשר אינו מהווה הפרה של זכויות יוצרים ומבצעים. הפרות של כלל זה הן השחתה וויקיפדיה עושה כל מאמץ למנוע אותן.
 יש לזכור כי ויקיפדיה הינה גוף התנדבותי, וככזה, ייתכן שייקח זמן מה בטרם תתוקן ההשחתה. אין ויקיפדיה אחראית לכל נזק שייגרם בפרק זמן זה.
 ויקיפדיה היא אנציקלופדיה בהתהוות תמידית, ולכן ייתכנו בערכים שגיאות, נקיטות עמדה, סתירות, או אי התאמות עם הכללים לעיל.
מהיותה של ויקיפדיה התנדבותית, אין היא אחראית לכל נזק שייגרם בשל הסתמכות על הערכים, ואם מתגלה הפרה של הכללים, תעשה כל מאמץ לתקן את הערך.
 


URL: https://mzn.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%BE%D8%B1%D9%88%DA%98%D9%87:%D8%AA%DA%A9%D8%B0%DB%8C%D8%A8%E2%80%8C%D9%86%D9%88%D9%85%D9%87%D9%94_%D9%87%D9%85%D9%87%E2%80%8C%DA%AF%D9%88%D9%86%DB%8C

Content: ویکی‌پدیا، اتا دانشنامه با محتویات آزاد و حاصل کار داوطلبونهٔ ونه کارورون هسته. اینتا پروژه‌ی هدف بساتن منبعی آزاد دانش بشری وسّه هسته. ونه ساختار به گونه‌ای هسته که هرکسی که دسترسی به اینترنت داشت‌بائه بتونده ونه بنویشته‌ئون ره تغییر هاده. پس این ره بدونین که اینجه‌ی بنویشته‌ئون ره هیچ کسی بازرسی نکانده و همینسه ونه بنویشته‌ئون بتونده غلط بوئه.
 گرچه اینتا سایت دله چیزون خله خاری هم پیدا بونه ولی اِما وشون ره تضمین نکامبی و این بنویشته‌ئون گرچه ونه منبع‌دار و معتبر بائن، ولی تضمین‌بَیی نینه. شِما هم هرچی که ونه دله دره ره بتوندی کار بزنی.


URL: https://kn.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B2%B5%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%95%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%AA%E0%B3%80%E0%B2%A1%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%AF:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows anyone with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals with the expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
 That's not to say that you won't find valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and highlight more reliable versions of articles.  The closest thing to a formal review system that currently exists are the   and   processes, but even articles that have been vetted by those processes may later have been inappropriately edited just before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the  ; neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at Wikipedia.


URL: https://kn.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B2%B5%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%95%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%AA%E0%B3%80%E0%B2%A1%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%AF:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows anyone with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals with the expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
 That's not to say that you won't find valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and highlight more reliable versions of articles.  The closest thing to a formal review system that currently exists are the   and   processes, but even articles that have been vetted by those processes may later have been inappropriately edited just before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the  ; neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at Wikipedia.


URL: https://ms.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Penafian_umum

Content: Wikipedia merupakan ensiklopedia bebas dan terbuka. Ia ialah hasil usaha gabungan penglibatan individu dan kumpulan sukarelawan yang berusaha untuk membangunkan sumber pengetahuan rujukan orang ramai. Struktur projek ini membolehkan sesiapa sahaja yang mempunyai sambungan Internet untuk mengubah kandungannya. Dengan ini, dimaklumkan bahawa sebarang maklumat dipaparkan dalam Wikipedia tidak semestinya telah dinilaikan kesahihannya oleh golongan profesional dalam sebarang bidang yang berkaitan untuk ketepatan dan kesahan maklumat. 
 Hal ini tidaklah bermakna anda tidak akan menemui sebarang maklumat tepat di Wikipedia kerana kebanyakan daripada kandungan kami dikemaskinikan dari semasa ke semasa. Namun begitu,  . Kandungan sesuatu rencana mungkin telah disunting, dirosakkan atau ditukar oleh seseorang yang mungkin berpendapat lain dalam bidang berkenaan. Untuk maklumat anda, kebanyakan daripada ensiklopedia dan bahan rujukan lain juga mempunyai penafian seperti di atas.      
 Kami sentiasa berusaha untuk memilih dan memastikan versi rencana yang dipaparkan ialah yang terbaik. Kommuniti penyunting aktif kami menggunakan peralatan seperti   dan   untuk memantau sebarang perubahan dan kandungan baharu. Namun begitu, kandungan Wikipedia tidak dinilai secara menyeluruh; walaupun pembaca mungkin membetulkan sebarang kesilapan, mereka tidak mempunyai sebarang kewajipan dari segi undang-undang untuk bertindak sedemikian. Oleh itu, kesemua informasi yang dibaca di sini adalah tanpa sebarang jaminan untuk apa-apa tujuan dan sebagainya. Kanduangan rencana yang telah dikategorikan sebagai telah dinilai atau dipilih sebagai   juga mungkin telah ditukar atau disunting sebelum anda membacanya.            
 
 Sila pastikan anda memahami bahawa maklumat di sini disediakan secara percuma, bebas dan tanpa sebarang ikatan, perjanjian atau persetujuan antara anda dengan pemilik tapak web ini dan pengguna-penggunanya, pemilik-pemilik pelayan di mana ia disimpan, para penyumbang individu Wikipedia, pentadbir projek,   atau sesiapa sahaja yang berkaitan dengan   dan projek-projek berkembarnya untuk menerima sebarang tuntutan daripada anda secara langsung. Anda hanya diizinkan lesen terhad untuk membuat salinan sebarang bahan daripada tapak web ini; kebenaran ini tidak menjadikannya atau bermaksud kontrak mahupun kontrak penambahan liabiliti kepada pihak   atau sebarang ejen-ejennya, ahli-ahlinya, pengurusannya dan pengguna-pengguna lainnya.
  untuk sebarang penggunaan atau perubahan informasi tertakluk dalam   (CC-BY-SA) dan   (GFDL); mahupun sesiapa yang berkaitan dengan Wikipedia bertanggungjawab untuk mengubah, menyunting atau memadamkan sebarang informasi yang anda mungkin tulis atau paparkan dalam Wikipedia atau projek-projek berkaitan dengannya.
 Mana-mana tanda dagangan, tanda perkhidmatan, tanda kolektif, hak reka bentuk atau hak-hak yang disertakan dan dinyatakan dalam artikel ensiklopedia   merupakan hak milik pemilik masing-masing. Penggunaan bahan tersebut di sini tidak bermakna anda boleh menggunakannya untuk kegunaan lain atau untuk penyebaran informasi seperti yang dinyatakan oleh penulis artikel Wikipedia tersebut di bawah skema perlesenan CC-BY-SA dan GFDL. Melainkan jika dinyatakan, Wikipedia dan laman-laman Wikimedia tidak berkaitan atau disahkan berhubung kait dengan mana-mana pemegang hak tersebut. Wikipedia tidak mampu memberi sebarang hak penggunaan mana-mana bahan yang dilindungi. Penggunaan bahan tersebut adalah di bawah tanggungan dan risiko anda.
 Wikipedia mungkin mengandungi bahan yang menggambarkan seseorang yang masih hidup atau meninggal dunia. Penggunaan imej-imej ini, dalam bidang kuasa tertentu, dihalang oleh undang-undang hak personaliti yang bebas daripada hak cipta bahan tersebut. Sebelum menggunakan bahan jenis ini, sila pastikan anda mempunyai hak untuk menggunakannya dalam bidang kuasa undang-undang. Anda bertanggungjawab untuk memastikan hak personaliti seseorang tidak dicabuli.
 Penerbitan informasi yang dijumpai dalam Wikipedia mungkin dianggap salah di sisi undang-undang di negara atau bidang kuass di mana anda membaca informasi ini. Pangkalan data Wikipedia disimpan dalam pelayan di Negeri Florida, Amerika Syarikat dan diselenggara mengikut peruntukan dalam undang-undang persekutuan dan tempatan Amerika Syarikat. Wikipedia tidak menggalakkan pelanggaran mana-mana undang-undang dan tidak bertanggungjawab untuk sebarang pelanggaran undang-undang yang berlaku seandainya anda menghubungkan domain ini atau menggunakan, mengeluarkan semula, atau menerbitkan maklumat yang terkandung di sini.
 Seandainya anda memerlukan sebarang nasihat (dalam bidang seperti perubatan, perundangan, kewangan atau sebagainya) sila dapatkan khidmat profesional yang berlesen atau mempunyai kepakaran dalam bidang tersebut.
 


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&centralAuthAutologinTried=1&centralAuthError=Not+centrally+logged+in&returnto=Artificial+intelligence

Content: This page is not available in other languages.

URL: https://my.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E1%80%9D%E1%80%AE%E1%80%80%E1%80%AE%E1%80%95%E1%80%AE%E1%80%B8%E1%80%92%E1%80%AE%E1%80%B8%E1%80%9A%E1%80%AC%E1%80%B8:%E1%80%A1%E1%80%91%E1%80%BD%E1%80%B1%E1%80%91%E1%80%BD%E1%80%B1_%E1%80%9E%E1%80%90%E1%80%AD%E1%80%95%E1%80%BC%E1%80%AF%E1%80%96%E1%80%BD%E1%80%9A%E1%80%BA

Content: 
 
ဝီကီပီးဒီးယားသည် လူအများက စုပေါင်းရေးသားထား၍ အားလုံးကို ဝေမျှထားသော အွန်လိုင်း စွယ်စုံကျမ်း တစ်ခုသာလျှင် ဖြစ်ပါသည်။ ဆိုလိုရင်းမှာ လူတစ်ဦးတစ်ယောက်ချင်း သို့မဟုတ် လူအုပ်စုများက မိမိတို့၏ သဘောဆန္ဒဖြင့်လူသားတို့၏ အသိဉာဏ် ဗဟုသုတ တိုးတက်ဖွံ့ဖြိုးရေး အတွက် ရည်ရွယ်၍ လုပ်ဆောင်နေခြင်းသာ ဖြစ်ပါသည်။ ပရော့ဂျက်၏ ပုံသဏ္ဌာန်အရ အင်တာနက် ဆက်သွယ်မှု ရှိသူ မည်သူမဆို အတွင်းရှိ စာသားများကို ပြောင်းလဲပိုင်ခွင့်ရှိပါသည်။ ထို့ကြောင့် ဤနေရာတွင် တွေ့ရှိသော အကြောင်းအရာများမှာ ကျွမ်းကျင်သူများမှ ပြန်လည် စိစစ်သုံးသပ်ထားခြင်း မရှိသဖြင့် တိကျပြည့်စုံ၍ အားကိုးအားထားပြုလောက်သော သတင်း အချက်အလက်များ ဖြစ်ချင်မှ ဖြစ်ပါလိမ့်မည်ဆိုသည့်အကြောင်း အကြံပေးချင်ပါသည်။
 ထိုအတွက်ကြောင့် သင့်အနေနှင့် တန်ဖိုးရှိပြီး တိကျသော သတင်းအချက်အလက်များကို ဝီကီပီးဒီးယားတွင် ရှာဖွေတွေ့ရှိနိုင်လိမ့်မည် မဟုတ်ဟုလည်း မဆိုလိုပါ။ များသောအားဖြင့် သင့်အနေနှင့် ထိုသို့သော သတင်းအချက်အလက်များကို တွေ့နိုင်ပါသည်။ သို့သော်လည်း ဝီကီပီးဒီးယားမှ ဤနေရာတွင် တွေ့ရှိသော သတင်းအချက်အလက်များသည် ခိုင်လုံတိကျသည်ဟု အာမခံချက် မပေးနိုင်ပါ။ ဆောင်းပါးတွင် ပါဝင်သော အကြောင်းအရာများကို လတ်တလောတွင် သက်ဆိုင်ရာနယ်ပယ်နှင့် ပတ်သက်သော ဗဟုသုတ မရှိသူ တစ်ဦးမှ ပြောင်းလဲခြင်း၊ ဖျက်ဆီးခြင်း သို့မဟုတ် ပြင်ဆင်ခြင်းများ ပြုလုပ်ထားနိုင်ပါသည်။ အခြားသော စွယ်စုံကျမ်းများနှင့် ကျမ်းကိုး အများစုတွင်လည်း အလားတူ မသက်ဆိုင်ကြောင်း ရှင်းလင်းချက်များ ရှိတတ်သည်ကို သတိပြုစေလိုပါသည်။
 ယုံကြည်စိတ်ချရသောဆောင်းပါများ ရွေးချယ်တင်ပြနိုင်ရန် နည်းလမ်းများကို ကျွန်တော်တို့ ရှာဖွေလုပ်ဆောင်နေပါသည်။ ကျွန်တော်တို့၏ တက်ကြွသော အယ်ဒီတာအဖွဲ့သည်  အချက်အလက်အသစ်များနှင့် ပြောင်းလဲမှုများကို   နှင့်    တို့ကဲ့သို့သော ကိရိယာများကို အသုံးပြုပြီး စောင့်ကြည့်ထိန်းသိမ်းလျက်ရှိပါသည်။ သို့သော်လည်း ဝီကီပီးဒီးယားကို တပြေးညီ အကဲဖြတ်ခြင်းရှိမနေသည့်အတွက် စာဖတ်သူများသည် အမှားများ ပြင်ဆင်ခြင်းနှင့် အကဲဖြတ်ခြင်းတို့တွင် ပါဝင်ပတ်သက်လေ့ရှိသော်လည်း သူတို့တွင် ထိုသို့ပြုလုပ်ရမည်ဟူသော တာဝန်ဝတ္တရား ရှိမနေပါ။ ထို့အတွက်ကြောင့် ဤနေရာတွင် ဖတ်ရှုရနိုင်သော အချက်အလက်များသည် မည်သည့်နေရာတွင်မဆို သို့မဟုတ် မည်သည့်ရည်ရွယ်ချက်ဖြင့်မဆို အသုံးပြုရန်အတွက် ဆီလျော်နေမည်ဟု အာမခံချက် ပေးမထားပါ။ ဆောင်းပါးများကို အကဲဖြတ်ခဲ့ပြီး ဖြစ်သော်လည်း နောက်ပိုင်းတွင် သင်မဖတ်ရမီအချိန်အတွင်း မဆီမလျော်တည်းဖြတ်ခြင်းခံရနေနိုင်ပါသည်။
 
 ဤနေရာတွင် ဖော်ပြထားသော အချက်အလက်များကို အခမဲ့ထောက်ပံ့ထားခြင်းဖြစ်ပြီး သင်နှင့် ပိုင်ရှင်များ သို့မဟုတ် ဤဆိုဒ်ကို အသုံးပြုသူများ၊ လွှင့်တင်ထားသော ဆာဗာများ၏ ပိုင်ရှင်များ၊ ဝီကီပီးဒီးယား ပံ့ပိုးသူတစ်ဦးချင်း၊ ပရောဂျက်စီမံခန့်ခွဲသူများ၊ အက်ဒမင်များ သို့မဟုတ် ဤပရောဂျက် သို့မဟုတ် ညီအစ်မပရောဂျက်များတွင်    အကြားတွင် သဘောတူညီချက်၊ သဘောတူစာချုပ် တစ်မျိုးမျိုး ရှိမနေသည်ကို သတိပြုပါ။ ဤဆိုဒ်ပေါ်ရှိ မည်သည့်အကြောင်းအရာကိုမဆို ကူးယူရန် သင့်အား ကန့်သတ်လိုင်စင်တစ်ခုဖြင့် ပေးအပ်ထားပြီး ဝီကီပီးဒီးယား၏ တစ်စိတ်တစ်ပိုင်း သို့မဟုတ် ၎င်း၏အေးဂျင့်များ၊ အဖွဲ့ဝင်များ၊ စီစဉ်သူများ သို့မဟုတ် အခြားအသုံးပြုသူများ၏ အစိတ်အပိုင်းတစ်ခုတွင် စာချုပ်စာတမ်းဆိုင်ရာ သို့မဟုတ် အပိုတာဝန်ယူမှုကို ဖန်တီးခြင်း သို့မဟုတ် သတ်မှတ်ထားခြင်း မရှိပါ။
  (CC-BY-SA) နှင့်   (GFDL) တို့ထက် ကျော်လွန်၍ ဤသတင်းအချက်အလက်များအား အသုံးပြုခြင်းနှင့် ပြင်ဆင်ခြင်းအပေါ်  ပါ။ ဝီကီပီးဒီးယား သို့မဟုတ် ၎င်း၏ဆက်စပ်ပရောဂျက်များပေါ်တွင် သင်တင်နိုင်သည့် မည်သည့်အချက်အလက်ကိုမဆို ပြောင်းလဲခြင်း၊ တည်းဖြတ်ခြင်း၊ ပြင်ဆင်ခြင်း သို့မဟုတ် ဖယ်ရှားခြင်းများအတွက် ဝီကီပီးဒီးယားရှိ မည်သူတစ်ဦးတစ်ယောက်ထံတွင်မျှ တာဝန်မရှိပါ။
 ဝီကီပီဒီးယား စွယ်စုံကျမ်းတွင် အသုံးပြု သို့မဟုတ် ရည်ညွှန်း ဖော်ပြထားသော ကုန်အမှတ်တံဆိပ်၊ ဝန်ဆောင်မှု အမှတ်အသား၊ အစုအပေါင်း အမှတ်အသား၊ ဒီဇိုင်း မူပိုင်ခွင့် သို့မဟုတ် အလာတူ အခွင့်အရေးများသည် သက်ဆိုင်ရာ ပိုင်ရှင်များ၏ ပိုင်ဆိုင်မှုသာ ဖြစ်သည်။ 
 ဝီကီပီဒီးယား စွယ်စုံကျမ်းပါ ဆောင်းပါးများတွင် ဖော်ပြထားသော၊ အသုံးပြုထားသော သို့မဟုတ် ကိုးကားဖော်ပြထားသော အမှတ်တံဆိပ်များ၊ ဝန်ဆောင်မှုအမှတ်အသားများ၊ စုပေါင်းအမှတ်အသားများ၊ ဒီဇိုင်းဆိုင်ရာ မူပိုင်အခွင့်အရေးများ သို့မဟုတ် အလားတူအခွင့်အရေးများကို ဝီကီပီဒီးယား စွယ်စုံကျမ်း၏ ဆောင်းပါးများတွင် ဖော်ပြထားခြင်းများသည် သက်ဆိုင်ရာပိုင်ရှင်များ၏ ပိုင်ဆိုင်မှုဖြစ်သည်။ ဤနေရာတွင် ၎င်းတို့၏အသုံးပြုမှုသည် CC-BY-SA နှင့် GFDL လိုင်စင်အစီအစဉ်များအောက်ရှိ ဤဝီကီပီးဒီးယားဆောင်းပါးများ၏ မူရင်းစာရေးဆရာများမှ တွေးခေါ်ထားသည့်အတိုင်း တူညီသော သို့မဟုတ် အလားတူသတင်းအချက်အလက်အသုံးပြုမှုမှလွဲ၍ အခြားမည်သည့်ရည်ရွယ်ချက်အတွက်မဆို ၎င်းတို့ကို အသုံးပြုနိုင်ကြောင်း မဆိုလိုပါ။ အခြားနည်းဖြင့် မဖော်ပြထားပါက၊ ဝီကီပီဒီးယားနှင့် ဝီကီမီဒီယာဆိုဒ်များသည် ယင်းအခွင့်အရေးကို ကိုင်ဆောင်ထားသူများနှင့် သက်ဆိုင်ခြင်းမရှိသကဲ့သို့၊ ဝီကီပီဒီးယားနှင့် အခြားသော ကာကွယ်ထားသည့်ပစ္စည်းများကို အသုံးပြုရန် မည်သည့်အခွင့်အရေးကိုမှ မပေးနိုင်ပါ။ ထိုကဲ့သို့သော သို့မဟုတ် အလားတူသော ပေါင်းစပ်ပစ္စည်းပိုင်ဆိုင်မှုကို သင့်အနေဖြင့် အသုံးပြုခြင်း သင့်တာဝန်သာ ဖြစ်သည်။
 အသက်ရှိဆဲ သို့မဟုတ် မကြာသေးမီက ကွယ်လွန်ခဲ့သည့် မှတ်မိသိရှိနိုင်ဖွယ်ရှိသော လူပုဂ္ဂိုလ်အကြောင်း ဖော်ပြချက် အကြောင်းအရာများ ဝီကီပီဒီးယားတွင် ပါဝင်သည်။ အသက်ရှိဆဲ သို့မဟုတ် ကွယ်လွန်ခဲ့ပြီးသော ပုဂ္ဂိုလ်များ၏ ပုံများကို အသုံးပြုရာတွင် တရားစီရင်မှု တချို့နှင့် ငြိစွန်းခြင်း၊ တသီးပုဂ္ဂလ အခွင့်အရေးများအရ ဥပဒေဖြင့် တင်းကြပ်ထားခြင်း၊ မူပိုင်ခွင့်မှ လွတ်မြောက်နေခြင်းများ ဖြစ်နိုင်ပါသည်။ အဆိုပါ အမျိုးအစား အကြောင်းအရာများကို အသုံးမပြုမီ သင်အသုံးပြုရန် ရည်စူးထားသည့် အနေအထားတွင် ဥပဒေကြောင်းအရ အသုံးပြုခွင့် ရှိကြောင်း သေချာအောင် ကျေးဇူးပြု၍ လုပ်ဆောင်ပါ။  
 ဝီကီပီဒီးယားပါ သတင်းအချက်အလက် ဖော်ပြချက်များသည် သင် ဖတ်ရှုသည့်နေရာဒေသ၏ ဥပဒေများ၊ တရားစီရင်ရေးရာများကို ချိုးဖောက်ရာ ရောက်ကောင်း ရောက်နိုင်ပါသည်။ ဝီကီပီဒီးယား ဒေတာအထိုင်ကို  ၊ ဖလော်ရီဒါပြည်နယ်ရှိ ဆာဗာတွင် သိမ်းဆည်းထားပါသည်။ ထို့အပြင် ဒေသတွင်းနှင့် ဖက်ဒရယ် ဥပဒေများဖြင့် ရည်ညွှန်းကိုးကားချက်များကို အကာအကွယ်ယူ ထိန်းသိမ်းထားပါသည်။ သင်နေထိုင်ရာ နိုင်ငံ၏ ဥပဒေ သို့မဟုတ် တရားစီရင်ရေးသည် အလားတူ မိန့်ဆိုချက် သို့မဟုတ် အထောက်အကူပေးချက်များကို အကာအကွယ်ပေးချင်မှ ပေးနိုင်ပါလိမ့်မည်။ ဝီကီပီဒီးယားအနေဖြင့် မည်သည့်ဥပဒေ ချိုးဖောက်မှုကိုမှ အားမပေးပါ။ ဤတွင် ပါဝင်နေသော သတင်းအချက်အလက်များကို ပြန်လည် ဖော်ပြချက် သို့မဟုတ် ပြန်လည် ထုတ်လုပ်ချက် သို့မဟုတ် အသုံးပြုထားချက် သို့မဟုတ် ဒိုမိန်းလိပ်စာ ချိတ်ဆက်ထားမှုတို့ကြောင့် ဖြစ်ပေါ်သော မည်သည့်ဥပဒေ ချိုးဖောက်မှုကိုမှ တာဝန် မခံနိုင်ပါ။
 အထူးအကြံဉာဏ် (ဥပမာ ဆေးပညာဆိုင်ရာ၊ ဥပဒေဆိုင်ရာ၊ ဘဏ္ဍာရေးဆိုင်ရာ သို့မဟုတ် အန္တရာယ်အခြေအနေကို စီမံခန့်ခွဲမှု) လိုအပ်လျှင် အဆိုပါ နယ်ပယ်တွင် ဗဟုသုတ ကြွယ်ဝသူ သို့မဟုတ် လုပ်ပိုင်ခွင့် လိုင်စင်ရသူ ပညာရှင် (professional) ကို ရှာဖွေမေးမြန်းပါ။


URL: https://jv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:S%C3%A9lakan_umum

Content: W  O  M  J  K 
  iku bauwarna (ènsiklopedhia) kanthi isi tinarbuka   ing jagad maya kang ngutamaaké gotong royong. Sapa waé éntuk nambahi, ngowahi, lan nyunting. Panjenengan kudu migatèaké yèn artikel sing ana ing kéné durung ditliti-priksa dèning wong-wong sing kawogan utawa para pakar kang pinercaya supaya apa sing kapacak ing kéné bisa lengkap, akurat, lan pinercaya. 
 Ananging, prakara iki uga ora ndadéaké Wikipedia kurang bisa digunaaké kanggo ngangsu kawruh. Para sukarélawan sing aktif ing kéné nyoba supaya Wikipedia bisa pinercaya. Ananging, bisa waé informasi sing ana ing kéné diowahi utawa dirusak déning wong-wong sing iseng.
 Artikel-artikel kang tinulis ing Wikipedia iku urun rembugé para penulisé dhéwé. Wikipédia ora mènèhi jaminan marang isiné.
 Sapa waé mardhika kanggo ngowahi lan mbeneraké saben artikel sing ana. Mula saka kuwi, seka prosès sing lumaku sing salawasé iki kedadèn, artikel-artikel mau bisa luwih becik.
 Ing antarané para naraguna Wikipedia, ana sawetara sing dadi  . Wong-wong iki sing njaga lan nglayani ing Wikipedia. Prakara tanggung jawab artikel-artikelé, tetep waé dadi bot-repoté bebarengan.


URL: https://jv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:S%C3%A9lakan_umum

Content: W  O  M  J  K 
  iku bauwarna (ènsiklopedhia) kanthi isi tinarbuka   ing jagad maya kang ngutamaaké gotong royong. Sapa waé éntuk nambahi, ngowahi, lan nyunting. Panjenengan kudu migatèaké yèn artikel sing ana ing kéné durung ditliti-priksa dèning wong-wong sing kawogan utawa para pakar kang pinercaya supaya apa sing kapacak ing kéné bisa lengkap, akurat, lan pinercaya. 
 Ananging, prakara iki uga ora ndadéaké Wikipedia kurang bisa digunaaké kanggo ngangsu kawruh. Para sukarélawan sing aktif ing kéné nyoba supaya Wikipedia bisa pinercaya. Ananging, bisa waé informasi sing ana ing kéné diowahi utawa dirusak déning wong-wong sing iseng.
 Artikel-artikel kang tinulis ing Wikipedia iku urun rembugé para penulisé dhéwé. Wikipédia ora mènèhi jaminan marang isiné.
 Sapa waé mardhika kanggo ngowahi lan mbeneraké saben artikel sing ana. Mula saka kuwi, seka prosès sing lumaku sing salawasé iki kedadèn, artikel-artikel mau bisa luwih becik.
 Ing antarané para naraguna Wikipedia, ana sawetara sing dadi  . Wong-wong iki sing njaga lan nglayani ing Wikipedia. Prakara tanggung jawab artikel-artikelé, tetep waé dadi bot-repoté bebarengan.


URL: https://cdo.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:M%C3%B2%CC%A4_h%C3%B4-c%C3%A1ik_s%C4%ADng-m%C3%ACng

Content: /* Mò̤ bō̤-céng cĭng-sĭk-séng */ About Aol specific gameing language governing
 Nē̤ng-gă â̤ gēng-sōng siŏh piĕ gŏ̤ cék-liông gì ùng-ciŏng, bêng-chiā â̤ huă-huă-nióh kĕk   gâe̤ng   lì gáng-sê dék sĭng gì biéng-huá. Dáng-sê,  


URL: https://mwl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biquip%C3%A9dia:Abiso_legal

Content: 
 La   — coincida anternacionalmente cumo   — ye ua anciclopédia   de cuntenido abierto, esto ye, ua associaçon d'andebíduos que beluntariamente se dedícan a la criaçon dun grande repositório de todo l coincimiento houmano. Sue strutura premite que qualquiera andebíduo cun ua lhigaçon a la Anterneta i un nabegador   puoda altarar l cuntenido eiqui ancuntrado. Antoce, l outelizador debe tener an atençon que nada garante que l cuntenudo eiqui çponeblizado tenga sido rebisto por porfissionales debidamente credenciados nas árias de coincimiento an queston, de modo a poder dar anformaçones cumpletas, percisas i credibles subre qualquiera assunto eiqui abordado.
 Esto nun quier dezir que la Biquipédia nun cuntenha muitas anformaçones percisas i baliosas. Esto quier dezir solo que la   Eilhas puoden tener sido altaradas ó bandalizadas por alguien cun ua oupenion que nun corresponda al "stado de l coincimiento" na ária particular que l'outelizador stá antressado an coincer. La Wikipédia stá a trabalhar an nuobas formas de selecionar i aprobar bersones fiables de ls artigos mas, mesmo assi, sin dar garanties.
 Nanhun de ls outores, cuntribuidores, patrocinadores, admenistradores (de l cuntenido ó de l sistema), nin naide lhigado d'algua maneira a la Wikipédia puode ser respunsablizado por qualesquiera anformaçones amprecisas ó difamatórias eiqui cuntenidas, nin pul uso que se puoda fazer de tales anformaçones.
 Todas las marcas registradas ó parecidas, ambolbendo dreitos d'outor, que séian mencionadas, outelizadas ó citadas ne ls artigos de la Biquipédia son propiadades de sous respetibos duonhos. Sou uso neste sítio nun outoriza naide a outelizá-las lhibremente cun outros perpósitos para alhá de l'oubjetibo anformatibo de l'outor oureginal desses artigos. Salbo quando specificado an cuntrairo, ls sítios de la Wikimedia Foundation, antre ls quales stá la Biquipédia, nun son andossados nin afeliados a nanhun de ls propiatairos destes dreitos i, cumo tal, la Biquipédia nun puode cunceder dreitos d'uso subre nanhun material que tenga l sou uso restrito por dreitos outorales ó parecidos.
 Las anformaçones na Wikipédia puoden biolar la lhegislaçon aplicable an detreminados países ó jurisdiçones. La Biquipédia nun ancita la biolaçon de nanhue lhei, mas cumo las anformaçones stan guardadas an serbidores ne ls Stados Ounidos de la América i an alguns países de la Ouropa, eilhas son regidas pulas proteçones garantidas als cidadanos desses países. Inda assi, nin todos ls países de l mundo dan ua proteçon a la lhibardade de spresson tan ampla cumo ls Stados Ounidos ó la Ounion Ouropeia, pul que la Wikipédia nun puode ser, de nanhun modo, respunsablizada por ua eibentual biolaçon dessas lheis, pul uso que un outelizador dun desses países puoda fazer de las anformaçones na Biquipédia.
 L'outelizador que percisar d'acunselhamiento specífico (por eisemplo: médico, lhegal, financeiro, etc.) ye bibamente acunselhado a percurar un porfissional de la ária.
 La Biquipédia nun ye rebista de forma custante i ouniforme. Anque de ls lheitores puodan corregir erros ó remober anformaçones ancorretas, eilhes nun ténen nanhue oubrigaçon lhegal de fazé-lo, pul que nanhue anformaçon ancuntrada eiqui ten qualquiera garantie de serbir a qualquiera uso ó perpósito specífico.
 Las anformaçones de la Wikipédia son çponiblizadas de grácia, nun habendo nanhun acuordo ó cuntrato antre l'outelizador i la Biquipédia cun respeito al uso ó modeficaçon dessas anformaçones para alhá de la   (CC-BY-SA) i de la  . La Biquipédia nun puode ser respunsablizada se alguien eiditar, demudar ó apagar qualquiera anformaçon que qualquiera outelizador tenga antroduzido na Biquipédia ó an qualquiera un de ls porjetos relacionados.


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RecentChanges

Content: This is a list of recent changes to Wikipedia.
 This page is not available in other languages.

URL: https://he.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D7%95%D7%99%D7%A7%D7%99%D7%A4%D7%93%D7%99%D7%94:%D7%94%D7%91%D7%94%D7%A8%D7%95%D7%AA_%D7%9E%D7%A9%D7%A4%D7%98%D7%99%D7%95%D7%AA

Content: להלן מספר הבהרות שחשוב לקחת לתשומת לב בעת השימוש ב . רשות העיון ב  מותנית בידיעתך את התנאים הללו ובהסכמתך להם.
 נודה לך אם תקדיש מזמנך לשם קריאת דף זה, ואנו מקווים שתיהנה מהחוויה שמעניקה לך  .
 אנא ודא שאתה מבין כי המידע המסופק כאן מובא בצורה חופשית ובחינם, ולא נערך כל הסכם או חוזה בינך לבין הבעלים או המשתמשים של אתר זה, בעלי השרתים שבהם מאוחסנת האנציקלופדיה, התורמים הפרטיים לוויקיפדיה, כל מנהל של הפרויקטים, טכנאים או כל אדם אחר שקשור בכל דרך לפרויקט הזה או לפרויקטים אחרים החשופים לטענותיך נגדם באופן ישיר. מוענק לך   להעתיק מתוך אתר זה טקסט, וכן תמונות אשר צוין עליהן שהן להפצה חופשית (בניגוד לתמונות הנמצאות באתר על פי כללי ה  ותמונות אחרות מוגבלות רישיון); רישיון זה לא יוצר או מרמז לכל אחריות המעוגנת בחוזה או בתוספת לו בשום חלק של   או של סוכניה, חבריה, יזמיה או כל משתמש אחר.
 
 
 המידע הזה מובא לך בחינם ו  כל הסכם או הבנה בינך לבין   בנוגע לשימוש שלך או כל שינוי שלך במידע זה מעבר לרישיון של   ו ; כמו כן, אף אחד ב  אינו אחראי לגבי כל שינוי, עריכה, הוספה או הסרה של כל מידע, שאתה עלול לכתוב ב  או בכל פרויקט אחר הנקשר בה.
 
 
 
 ויקיפדיה נערכת על ידי הציבור הרחב של משתמשי האינטרנט ולכן תיתכנה השחתות הן של מלל והן של תמונות. אין ויקיפדיה אחראית להשחתות אלה, ונעשה כל מאמץ על מנת לתקנן.
 באופן עקרוני, ויקיפדיה מאפשרת העלאת תמונות או כתיבת תוכן אשר אינו מפר את כלליה ואת חוקי המדינה; כך מאופשרת העלאת כל תוכן מקורי בעל ערך אנציקלופדי, אשר ניתן לאשש אותו ואשר אינו מהווה הפרה של זכויות יוצרים ומבצעים. הפרות של כלל זה הן השחתה, וויקיפדיה עושה כל מאמץ למנוע אותן.
 יש לזכור כי ויקיפדיה היא גוף התנדבותי, וככזה, ייתכן שייארך זמן מה בטרם תתוקן ההשחתה. אין ויקיפדיה אחראית לכל נזק שייגרם בפרק זמן זה.
 ויקיפדיה היא אנציקלופדיה צעירה אשר נמצאת עדיין בהתהוותה, ולכן ייתכנו בערכים שגיאות, נקיטות עמדה, סתירות, או אי התאמות עם הכללים לעיל.
 מהיותה של ויקיפדיה התנדבותית, אין היא אחראית לכל נזק שייגרם בשל הסתמכות על הערכים, ובמידה ומתגלה הפרה של הכללים, תעשה כל מאמץ לתקן את הערך.
  היא   בעלת תוכן פתוח ומקוון; מיזם התנדבותי של קבוצות ויחידים, השוקדים לפיתוח מאגר משותף של הידע האנושי. המבנה שלה מאפשר לכל פרט בעל גישה ל  ול  ה-  לערוך את התוכן הנמצא בה.
 עם כל הרצון הטוב של הו , הם עשויים לטעות. אנא קחו בחשבון שהמידע המופיע כאן, לא בהכרח נכתב או נבדק על ידי מומחים בתחומם, בעלי הידע הנדרש כדי להעניק לך מידע מושלם, מדויק או אמין לגבי כל נושא אליו מתייחסים הערכים ב .
 נחטא לאמת אם נאמר, שלא תוכל למצוא הרבה מידע בעל ערך ומדויק ב , אך למרות זאת עליך לזכור, ש , מטבעה,   להתחייב לתקפות ונכונות המידע המובא בה. המידע עשוי להיערך, להשתנות, ואף להינזק על ידי מי שהדעה שלו לא תואמת לידע המקובל בתחום מסוים, שאתה מתעניין ללמוד אודותיו.
 אנחנו מחפשים דרכים כדי לבחור ולאשר גרסאות יותר אמינות של ערכים, אבל עדיין ללא כל אחריות.
 
 
 ראו בהמשך הבהרות ספציפיות לגבי תחומי הרפואה והמשפט.
 ויקיפדיה כוללת נושאים רפואיים רבים; למרות זאת,   שהמידע בהם נכון. אין שום ביטחון שכל משפט בערך הנוגע בנושאים רפואיים הינו אמת, נכון או מדויק. אפילו אם נקבעת עובדה רפואית נכונה, ייתכן שהיא לא תהיה מתאימה לגביך או לגבי הסימפטומים שלך.
 המידע הרפואי אותו נותנת   הוא, במקרה הטוב, בעל אופן כללי ואינו יכול להוות תחליף לעצת  , כלומר, רופא מורשה, אחות, רוקח או כל אדם אחר מסוג זה.   אינה רופא.
 אף אחד מהתורמים, מפעילי מערכת, מפתחים או נותני החסות של ויקיפדיה או אף אחד אחר הקשור בדרך כלשהי לוויקיפדיה אינו יכול לקחת אחריות על התוצאות או השלכות של כל ניסיון להשתמש או לאמץ משהו מן האינפורמציה או הדיס־אינפורמציה המוצגים באתר זה.
 
 מובן שאתם מוזמנים לתרום לערכים ב  או   ואתם יכולים לעשות שימוש בכל חומר שתמצאו כאן תחת   ו .
 ויקיפדיה מכילה ערכים בנושאים משפטיים רבים, אולם מאחר שמדובר באנציקלופדיה חופשית, ייתכנו אי דיוקים. אין להסתמך על ערכים אלה כאל מידע משפטי מדויק.
ייתכנו שינויים בדין החל ממדינה למדינה, וכן ייתכנו שינויים בחקיקה ובפסיקה של כל מדינה ומדינה. ערכים יכולים להיות מבוססים על המצב המשפטי ששרר בעת הכנתם, אולם עובדה מסוימת, תקדים חדש, או הלך רוח שונה בבתי המשפט, עשויים לשנות את המצב, ואף להפוך אותו לחלוטין.
 המידע המצוי בוויקיפדיה הוא מידע כללי, ואין בו כדי להחליף מידע הניתן על ידי בעל מקצוע. על המעוניינים בייעוץ משפטי פרטני לפנות לעורך דין העוסק בתחום, ואין ויקיפדיה אחראית לכל נזק או תוצאה שתיגרם בעקבות הסתמכות על המידע המופיע בה.
 כל התוכן המצוי בוויקיפדיה אינו מהווה ייעוץ משפטי כהגדרתו בחוק, ואינו מתיימר להיות ייעוץ כזה.
 אנא נקוט בכל האמצעים הדרושים כדי לוודא, שכל מידע, שאתה מקבל מ  נכון ומאומת.
 אם יש הצעות כלשהן בנוגע לפעילויות מסוכנות, בלתי-חוקיות או לא מוסריות, זכור שכולם יכולים לכתוב מידע זה ב , והם עשויים להיות לא מתאימים בכדי לספק עבורך את המידע, שנודע לך לגביו צורך באמצעי זהירות הולמים, או בצעדים שבהם אתה יכול לנקוט כדי למנוע פציעה, נזק גופני או כל נזק אחר לעצמך, ברכוש או מוניטין.
 אנא הייה מודע לכך שכל מידע שאתה עשוי למצוא בוויקיפדיה עלול להיות לא מדויק, מטעה, מסוכן או בלתי חוקי.
 חובה לבדוק ולאמת כל פרט מידע הנמצא בוויקיפדיה, והאחריות בגין שימוש במידע ותוצאותיו מוטלת כולה על הקורא ועליו בלבד, לכן, האימות העצמאי שלך מומלץ ביותר.
 אם אתה זקוק לייעוץ ספציפי (למשל, רפואי, משפטי, ניהול סיכונים) אנא היוועץ במומחה, שהוא בעל רישיון או בעל ידע בתחום המבוקש.
 אנא שים לב, שהמידע הנמצא כאן עשוי לעבור על חוקיה של המדינה או של תחום השיפוט שבו אתה נמצא בעודך צופה במידע זה.   לא מעודדת עבירה על שום חוק שהוא, אבל מאחר שמידע זה מאוחסן על שרת במדינת   שב , הוא מתוחזק בהתאם להגנות המורשות כולן תחת   ותחת   של  .
 החוקים במדינתך עשויים שלא להכיר בחופש הדיבור בתור חוק של   או של העקרונות שבמגילת האו"ם, ולכן במצב שכזה, " " איננה יכולה להיות אחראית לגבי כל עבירה פוטנציאלית על חוקים שכאלו, שאתה יכול לעשות באמצעות קישור לדומיין זה או שימוש של המידע המובא כאן בכל דרך, אמצעי או מובן אחר.
 מטרתה של ויקיפדיה היא לשמש אוסף של מידע אנושי, וככזה מצויים בה ערכים רבים הכתובים בהתנדבות על ידי כותבים רבים.
חלק מהערכים יכולים להיחשב כפוגעניים, או בוטים על ידי חלק מהקוראים.
על הכותבים להימנע מלכתוב בצורה פוגענית וכן להמנע מלהעלות תמונות אשר יכולות להיחשב כפוגעניות, אבל אין ויקיפדיה אחראית לכל נזק אשר יכול להיגרם עקב עיון בערכים או בתמונות המופיעים בוויקיפדיה.
 ויקיפדיה נערכת על ידי הציבור הרחב של משתמשי האינטרנט ולכן תיתכנה השחתות הן של מלל והן של תמונות. אין ויקיפדיה אחראית להשחתות אלה, ועושה כל מאמץ על מנת לתקנן.
 כעיקרון ויקיפדיה מאפשרת העלאת תמונות או כתיבת תוכן אשר אינו מפר את הכללים שלה, ואת חוקי המדינה, כך יאפשר העלאת כל תוכן מקורי בעל ערך אנציקלופדי, אשר ניתן לתומכו, ואשר אינו מהווה הפרה של זכויות יוצרים ומבצעים. הפרות של כלל זה הן השחתה וויקיפדיה עושה כל מאמץ למנוע אותן.
 יש לזכור כי ויקיפדיה הינה גוף התנדבותי, וככזה, ייתכן שייקח זמן מה בטרם תתוקן ההשחתה. אין ויקיפדיה אחראית לכל נזק שייגרם בפרק זמן זה.
 ויקיפדיה היא אנציקלופדיה בהתהוות תמידית, ולכן ייתכנו בערכים שגיאות, נקיטות עמדה, סתירות, או אי התאמות עם הכללים לעיל.
מהיותה של ויקיפדיה התנדבותית, אין היא אחראית לכל נזק שייגרם בשל הסתמכות על הערכים, ואם מתגלה הפרה של הכללים, תעשה כל מאמץ לתקן את הערך.
 


URL: https://mn.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:%D0%95%D1%80%D3%A9%D0%BD%D1%85%D0%B8%D0%B9_%D1%82%D0%B0%D1%82%D0%B3%D0%B0%D0%BB%D0%B7%D0%B0%D0%BB

Content:  нь чөлөөт   юм. „Чөлөөт“ гэдэг нь википедиа дахь өгүүллэгийн агуулга нь лизенцгүй буюу зөвшөөрөлтэйгөөр нийтэд нийтийн сүлжээнд ашиглаж болох агуулга гэсэн утгатай юм.
 Википедиа нь хүний мэдлэгийн санг нэгтгэж, арвижуулахын төлөө, сайн дурын үндсэн дээр нэгдэж хамтран бичдэг, интернэт дэх нэвтэрхий толь юм. Интернэт холболттой хүн бүр энэ төслийн агуулгыг өөрчилж болно. Иймээс энд буй мэдээллийг мэргэжилтнүүд хянаж, үнэн зөв гэдгийг батлаагүй бөгөөд зарим мэдээлэл нь найдвартай бус байж болно.
 Хэдийгээр Википедиа дахь дийлэнхи мэдээлэл үнэ цэнтэй, үнэн зөв байдаг ч гэлээ, Википедиа нь энд буй мэдээлэл үнэн зөв гэсэн баталгааг гаргахгүй. 
 Аливаа хувь нэмэр оруулагчид, спонсорууд, администраторууд, болон бусад Википедиатай холбоотой хүмүүс, Википедиад худал эсвэл гүтгэсэн мэдээлэл гарсан, эсвэл энд байгаа мэдээлэл ба эндээс линк хийгдсэн мэдээллийг ашигласантай холбоотой гарсан ямарваа зүйлд хариуцлага хүлээхгүй.
 Тодорхой мэргэжлийн зөвлөгөө (жишээ нь эмнэлгийн, хуулийн, санхүүгийн, эрсдлийн удирдлага г.м.) авахыг хүсвэл, тухайн чиглэлийн  мэргэжилтэнд хандана уу.


URL: https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Avvertenze_generali

Content: 
 
  è un'enciclopedia online a contenuto aperto, frutto del lavoro di un insieme di volontari, con lo scopo di sviluppare una fonte di conoscenza comune e libera.
Sebbene esistano   e un sistema non ufficiale di gestione anonimo e volontario, la struttura dell'enciclopedia permette a chiunque di modificare il contenuto delle sue pagine.
 È pertanto necessario tenere presente che:
 .
Ciò, naturalmente, non implica la mancanza di informazioni interessanti o accurate, ma è importante sapere che su Wikipedia ogni contenuto può essere modificato, alterato o   da chiunque.
Ciò significa che ogni dato o informazione presente nelle voci di Wikipedia potrebbe non rappresentare adeguatamente l'effettivo stato della conoscenza condivisa o la verità dei fatti.
Alcune edizioni linguistiche di Wikipedia hanno adottato  , ma sempre in forma volontaria e senza garanzia.
La cosa più vicina a questo sistema di selezione è l'attuale sezione « »; tuttavia anche le voci in essa presenti potrebbero essere state successivamente modificate senza il controllo necessario.
 
 Le informazioni riportate sono fornite in maniera libera e gratuita.
Nessun tipo di accordo o contratto sussiste — sia pure in forma implicita — tra l'utente e i proprietari del sito, gli utenti, i proprietari dei server, gli amministratori del progetto, gli amministratori di sistema o qualsiasi altra parte   a Wikipedia o ai progetti collaterali.
 Qualsiasi  , marchio di fabbrica, marchio collettivo, diritto di design, diritto d'immagine, di tutela dei propri dati personali o altri diritti simili, menzionati o utilizzati nelle voci di Wikipedia, è di proprietà dei legittimi detentori.
Tutto il materiale che si trova su Wikipedia è pubblicato dagli utenti (dei quali è conservato l'indirizzo IP a scopo cautelativo) secondo quanto previsto dalle   (CC BY-SA) e   (GFDL).
Wikipedia non può garantire che gli utenti abbiano effettivamente ottemperato a quanto richiesto da dette licenze e non abbiano, quindi, leso alcun diritto: la responsabilità della pubblicazione rimane perciò esclusivamente in capo agli utenti.
Laddove non diversamente dichiarato i siti di Wikipedia e Wikimedia non sono né associati a, né approvati da alcuno dei detentori di tali diritti.
  ed è espressamente vietato.
 È garantita una licenza limitata di copia dei contenuti (secondo le condizioni previste dalle licenze CC BY-SA e GFDL), ma ciò non crea né implica alcuna responsabilità contrattuale o extra-contrattuale da parte di Wikipedia o di uno qualsiasi dei suoi agenti, membri, organizzatori o altre parti.
 
 Le informazioni presenti potrebbero violare delle leggi del luogo di loro fruizione.
Wikipedia non incoraggia le violazioni di legge ma, siccome le informazioni sono conservate su server posti in  , negli  , si assumono a riferimento le disposizioni generali stabilite dal   della   e dalla   delle  .
Alcune legislazioni nazionali potrebbero non accordare una talmente ampia protezione della libertà di parola: Wikipedia non è responsabile per eventuali utilizzi dei propri contenuti considerati illeciti in tali Paesi.
 
 Leggere anche le avvertenze     e   per le liberatorie o per clausole specifiche di esclusione di responsabilità (disclaimer).
  in quanto essa è un'associazione volontaria di individui solo parzialmente strutturata e sviluppata liberamente per creare risorse educative, culturali e informative, online e aperte.
  e   circa il loro utilizzo o modifica, a parte il rispetto delle licenze CC BY-SA e GFDL; parimenti nessuno in Wikipedia è responsabile per il fatto che chicchessia cambi, modifichi o rimuova qualsiasi informazione che chiunque altro o egli medesimo possa aver inserito su Wikipedia o su uno qualsiasi dei suoi progetti associati.
 Il contenuto di questa pagina si applica a   presente in Wikipedia.
 Grazie per il tempo speso per la lettura di queste avvertenze generali, e auguri per una navigazione utile e piacevole su Wikipedia.


URL: https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Avvertenze_generali

Content: 
 
  è un'enciclopedia online a contenuto aperto, frutto del lavoro di un insieme di volontari, con lo scopo di sviluppare una fonte di conoscenza comune e libera.
Sebbene esistano   e un sistema non ufficiale di gestione anonimo e volontario, la struttura dell'enciclopedia permette a chiunque di modificare il contenuto delle sue pagine.
 È pertanto necessario tenere presente che:
 .
Ciò, naturalmente, non implica la mancanza di informazioni interessanti o accurate, ma è importante sapere che su Wikipedia ogni contenuto può essere modificato, alterato o   da chiunque.
Ciò significa che ogni dato o informazione presente nelle voci di Wikipedia potrebbe non rappresentare adeguatamente l'effettivo stato della conoscenza condivisa o la verità dei fatti.
Alcune edizioni linguistiche di Wikipedia hanno adottato  , ma sempre in forma volontaria e senza garanzia.
La cosa più vicina a questo sistema di selezione è l'attuale sezione « »; tuttavia anche le voci in essa presenti potrebbero essere state successivamente modificate senza il controllo necessario.
 
 Le informazioni riportate sono fornite in maniera libera e gratuita.
Nessun tipo di accordo o contratto sussiste — sia pure in forma implicita — tra l'utente e i proprietari del sito, gli utenti, i proprietari dei server, gli amministratori del progetto, gli amministratori di sistema o qualsiasi altra parte   a Wikipedia o ai progetti collaterali.
 Qualsiasi  , marchio di fabbrica, marchio collettivo, diritto di design, diritto d'immagine, di tutela dei propri dati personali o altri diritti simili, menzionati o utilizzati nelle voci di Wikipedia, è di proprietà dei legittimi detentori.
Tutto il materiale che si trova su Wikipedia è pubblicato dagli utenti (dei quali è conservato l'indirizzo IP a scopo cautelativo) secondo quanto previsto dalle   (CC BY-SA) e   (GFDL).
Wikipedia non può garantire che gli utenti abbiano effettivamente ottemperato a quanto richiesto da dette licenze e non abbiano, quindi, leso alcun diritto: la responsabilità della pubblicazione rimane perciò esclusivamente in capo agli utenti.
Laddove non diversamente dichiarato i siti di Wikipedia e Wikimedia non sono né associati a, né approvati da alcuno dei detentori di tali diritti.
  ed è espressamente vietato.
 È garantita una licenza limitata di copia dei contenuti (secondo le condizioni previste dalle licenze CC BY-SA e GFDL), ma ciò non crea né implica alcuna responsabilità contrattuale o extra-contrattuale da parte di Wikipedia o di uno qualsiasi dei suoi agenti, membri, organizzatori o altre parti.
 
 Le informazioni presenti potrebbero violare delle leggi del luogo di loro fruizione.
Wikipedia non incoraggia le violazioni di legge ma, siccome le informazioni sono conservate su server posti in  , negli  , si assumono a riferimento le disposizioni generali stabilite dal   della   e dalla   delle  .
Alcune legislazioni nazionali potrebbero non accordare una talmente ampia protezione della libertà di parola: Wikipedia non è responsabile per eventuali utilizzi dei propri contenuti considerati illeciti in tali Paesi.
 
 Leggere anche le avvertenze     e   per le liberatorie o per clausole specifiche di esclusione di responsabilità (disclaimer).
  in quanto essa è un'associazione volontaria di individui solo parzialmente strutturata e sviluppata liberamente per creare risorse educative, culturali e informative, online e aperte.
  e   circa il loro utilizzo o modifica, a parte il rispetto delle licenze CC BY-SA e GFDL; parimenti nessuno in Wikipedia è responsabile per il fatto che chicchessia cambi, modifichi o rimuova qualsiasi informazione che chiunque altro o egli medesimo possa aver inserito su Wikipedia o su uno qualsiasi dei suoi progetti associati.
 Il contenuto di questa pagina si applica a   presente in Wikipedia.
 Grazie per il tempo speso per la lettura di queste avvertenze generali, e auguri per una navigazione utile e piacevole su Wikipedia.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UrlShortener&url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FWikipedia%3AGeneral_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://is.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Almennur_fyrirvari

Content: Wikipedia er opið samvinnu-alfræðirit á vefnum; þ.e. samfélag sjálfboðaliða og hópa sem vinnur að því að búa til sameiginlegan brunn mannlegrar þekkingar. Verkefnið er þannig uppbyggt að hver sem er sem hefur aðgang að internetinu getur breytt innihaldi þess. Hafðu í huga að ekkert að því efni sem hér er að finna hefur örugglega verið yfirfarið af fólki sem hefur sérfræðiþekkinguna til þess að búa til tæmandi, nákvæmar og áreiðanlegar upplýsingar.
 Það þýðir ekki að þú munir ekki finna réttar og gagnlegar upplýsingar á Wikipediu. Oft munt þú finna það sem þú þarft. En   Efni greinarinnar sem ert að lesa kann að hafa breyst nýlega, það verið skemmt eða því breytt af einhverjum sem hefur sterkar skoðanir á málefninu sem falla ekki að almennt viðurkenndri þekkingu. Athugaðu að aðrar og hefðbundnari alfræðiorðabækur setja áþekka fyrirvara um innihald.
 Við erum að vinna í aðferðum til þess að velja og vekja athygli á áreiðanlegum útgáfum greina. Samfélag notendanna er virkt í því að fylgjast með nýlegum breytingum og nýjum síðum til þess að vakta nýjar upplýsingar og breytingar. Wikipedia er þó ekki ritrýnd jafnt eða skipulega, notendurnir leiðrétta mögulega villur sem þeir sjá og lesa yfir efni hvers annars en þeir gera það án þess að bera nokkur skylda til þess og því er engin ábyrgð tekin á gildi upplýsinga. Það á jafnvel við um greinar sem valdar hafa verið sérstaklega sem   sem kunna að hafa breyst rétt áður en þú opnaðir greinina. 
 
 Vertu viss um að þú skiljir það að upplýsingarnar sem veittar eru hér eru veittar gjaldfrjáls og að enginn samningur og ekkert samkomulag er í gildi á milli þín annars vegar og hins vegar eigenda þessa vefs, notenda þessa vefs, eigenda vefþjónanna, höfunda Wikipediu, stjórnenda eða möppudýra eða nokkurs annars sem tengist þessu verkefni á nokkurn hátt. Þú hefur leyfi með litlum takmörkunum til þess að nota efnið héðan en það leyfi kemur ekki á og gefur ekki í skyn að framantaldir aðilar beri skaðabótaábyrgð innan eða utan samninga.
  varðandi notkun þína og breytingar á þessu efni umfram almennu afnotaleyfin Creative Commons Attribution-Sharealike 3.0 Unported License (CC-BY-SA) og GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL). Né heldur ber Wikipedia eða nokkur henni tengdur ábyrgð á breytingum annarra á því efni sem þú setur inn á Wikipediu eða systurverkefni.
 Öll vörumerki eða áþekk merki, tákn eða hönnun sem nýtur álíka réttarverndar og sem notuð eru í greinum Wikipediu eða sem vitnað er til eru eign viðkomandi rétthafa. Notkun þeirra hér er ekki ætlað að gefa það í skyn að þér sé heimilt að nota slík merki í öðrum tilgangi en í upplýsingarskyni líkt og þau eru notuð í greinunum. Ef annað er ekki sérstaklega tekið fram þá eru Wikipedia og Wikimedia hvorki studd af né tengd rétthöfum slíkra merkja og getur því ekki gefið leyfi fyrir notkun þeirra. Notkun þín á slíkum merkjum er á þína eigin ábyrgð.
 Á Wikipediu er að finna myndefni af þekkjanlegum einstaklingum sem eru enn á lífi eða nýlega látnir. Í sumum lögsögum er notkun slíkra mynda takmörkuð með lögum varðandi persónuréttindi og slíkar takmarkanir eru óháðar og ótengdar höfundarétti. Áður en þú notar slíkt myndefni skalut vera viss um að þú hafir rétt til þess að nota það samkvæmt þeim lögum sem gilda um ætlaða notkun.  
 Útgáfa efnis sem er að finna í Wikipediu kann að vera brot á lögum í því landi eða í þeirri lögsögu þar sem þú ert að skoða efnið. Gagnagrunnur Wikipediu er geymdur á vefþjónum í Bandaríkjunum og er viðhaldið það með vísan til þeirra réttarverndar sem alríkislög og ríkislög veita. Lögin í þínu landi eða þinni lögsögu veita mögulega ekki sömu vernd eða leyfa áþekka dreifingu efnisins. Wikipedia hvetur ekki til lögbrota og getur ekki tekið ábyrgð á brotum gegn slíkum lögum ef þú tengir í þennan vefm eða notar, dreifir eða gefur út efnið sem hér er að finna.
 Ef þú þarft ráðgjöf (til að mynda læknisfræðilega, lögfræðilega, fjármálalega eða varðandi áhættustjórnun) þá þarft þú að leita til fagmanns á því sviði.


URL: https://is.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Almennur_fyrirvari

Content: Wikipedia er opið samvinnu-alfræðirit á vefnum; þ.e. samfélag sjálfboðaliða og hópa sem vinnur að því að búa til sameiginlegan brunn mannlegrar þekkingar. Verkefnið er þannig uppbyggt að hver sem er sem hefur aðgang að internetinu getur breytt innihaldi þess. Hafðu í huga að ekkert að því efni sem hér er að finna hefur örugglega verið yfirfarið af fólki sem hefur sérfræðiþekkinguna til þess að búa til tæmandi, nákvæmar og áreiðanlegar upplýsingar.
 Það þýðir ekki að þú munir ekki finna réttar og gagnlegar upplýsingar á Wikipediu. Oft munt þú finna það sem þú þarft. En   Efni greinarinnar sem ert að lesa kann að hafa breyst nýlega, það verið skemmt eða því breytt af einhverjum sem hefur sterkar skoðanir á málefninu sem falla ekki að almennt viðurkenndri þekkingu. Athugaðu að aðrar og hefðbundnari alfræðiorðabækur setja áþekka fyrirvara um innihald.
 Við erum að vinna í aðferðum til þess að velja og vekja athygli á áreiðanlegum útgáfum greina. Samfélag notendanna er virkt í því að fylgjast með nýlegum breytingum og nýjum síðum til þess að vakta nýjar upplýsingar og breytingar. Wikipedia er þó ekki ritrýnd jafnt eða skipulega, notendurnir leiðrétta mögulega villur sem þeir sjá og lesa yfir efni hvers annars en þeir gera það án þess að bera nokkur skylda til þess og því er engin ábyrgð tekin á gildi upplýsinga. Það á jafnvel við um greinar sem valdar hafa verið sérstaklega sem   sem kunna að hafa breyst rétt áður en þú opnaðir greinina. 
 
 Vertu viss um að þú skiljir það að upplýsingarnar sem veittar eru hér eru veittar gjaldfrjáls og að enginn samningur og ekkert samkomulag er í gildi á milli þín annars vegar og hins vegar eigenda þessa vefs, notenda þessa vefs, eigenda vefþjónanna, höfunda Wikipediu, stjórnenda eða möppudýra eða nokkurs annars sem tengist þessu verkefni á nokkurn hátt. Þú hefur leyfi með litlum takmörkunum til þess að nota efnið héðan en það leyfi kemur ekki á og gefur ekki í skyn að framantaldir aðilar beri skaðabótaábyrgð innan eða utan samninga.
  varðandi notkun þína og breytingar á þessu efni umfram almennu afnotaleyfin Creative Commons Attribution-Sharealike 3.0 Unported License (CC-BY-SA) og GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL). Né heldur ber Wikipedia eða nokkur henni tengdur ábyrgð á breytingum annarra á því efni sem þú setur inn á Wikipediu eða systurverkefni.
 Öll vörumerki eða áþekk merki, tákn eða hönnun sem nýtur álíka réttarverndar og sem notuð eru í greinum Wikipediu eða sem vitnað er til eru eign viðkomandi rétthafa. Notkun þeirra hér er ekki ætlað að gefa það í skyn að þér sé heimilt að nota slík merki í öðrum tilgangi en í upplýsingarskyni líkt og þau eru notuð í greinunum. Ef annað er ekki sérstaklega tekið fram þá eru Wikipedia og Wikimedia hvorki studd af né tengd rétthöfum slíkra merkja og getur því ekki gefið leyfi fyrir notkun þeirra. Notkun þín á slíkum merkjum er á þína eigin ábyrgð.
 Á Wikipediu er að finna myndefni af þekkjanlegum einstaklingum sem eru enn á lífi eða nýlega látnir. Í sumum lögsögum er notkun slíkra mynda takmörkuð með lögum varðandi persónuréttindi og slíkar takmarkanir eru óháðar og ótengdar höfundarétti. Áður en þú notar slíkt myndefni skalut vera viss um að þú hafir rétt til þess að nota það samkvæmt þeim lögum sem gilda um ætlaða notkun.  
 Útgáfa efnis sem er að finna í Wikipediu kann að vera brot á lögum í því landi eða í þeirri lögsögu þar sem þú ert að skoða efnið. Gagnagrunnur Wikipediu er geymdur á vefþjónum í Bandaríkjunum og er viðhaldið það með vísan til þeirra réttarverndar sem alríkislög og ríkislög veita. Lögin í þínu landi eða þinni lögsögu veita mögulega ekki sömu vernd eða leyfa áþekka dreifingu efnisins. Wikipedia hvetur ekki til lögbrota og getur ekki tekið ábyrgð á brotum gegn slíkum lögum ef þú tengir í þennan vefm eða notar, dreifir eða gefur út efnið sem hér er að finna.
 Ef þú þarft ráðgjöf (til að mynda læknisfræðilega, lögfræðilega, fjármálalega eða varðandi áhættustjórnun) þá þarft þú að leita til fagmanns á því sviði.


URL: https://xmf.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E1%83%95%E1%83%98%E1%83%99%E1%83%98%E1%83%9E%E1%83%94%E1%83%93%E1%83%98%E1%83%90:%E1%83%92%E1%83%90%E1%83%9B%E1%83%90%E1%83%9B%E1%83%98%E1%83%9C%E1%83%AF%E1%83%90%E1%83%9A%E1%83%90%E1%83%A8_%E1%83%95%E1%83%90%E1%83%A0%E1%83%90%E1%83%A4%E1%83%90

Content: ,  -  დუდიშული დინორეთ, რე მოხალისე  პიჯეფიშ დო ბუნეფიშ ჯარალუა, ნამუეფით ორსხუანა კოჩიშობაშ რჩქინაშ ოირკოჩე ოჩუაშეს. თიში სტრუქტურაშ მეჯინათ ვიკიპედიაშ რედაქტირაფა   დო   მაღვენჯი ნამგარდია პიჯის შეულებჷ. ათეშენ, რთხიინთ გეთოლწონათ, ნამდა მოჸონაფილი ინფორმაცია შილებე ვა რდას გჷნომორსაფილი პროფესიონალეფიშით.
 ვე შილებე თიში რაგადი, ნამდა ვიკიპედიას ვა რე აიწორი დო ოხვილური ინფორმაცია, მორო თქვა ოკო გეთოლწონათ, ნამდა    ვა რე გჷშაკოროცხილი, ნამდა თქვანო საინტერესო ინფორმაცია რდჷ თირელი, გჷლალუაფირი ვარა ჭარილი თი პიჯიშით, მიდგაშ სარზება იშხვანერებუ ზოგადო ეჭოფილი სარზებაშე. 
 ჩქი ირო ბგორჷნთ მაქსიმალურო ბონი დო გოთინილი სტატიეფიშ გჷნომორსაფაშ დო გჷშაგორუაშ შარეფს. ჩქინი უდიდაში მეჭირინდაფა რე  , მორო თინეფით ხოლო შელებუანიე გჷლალუეს-და მუსხირენ მერქაშ წოხოლე სოიშახ თქვა იკითხენდითჷნ.  
 რთხინთ გეთოლწონათ, ნამდა ინფორმაცია, ნამუსჷთ თაქ ძირჷნთჷნ, დორსხუაფილიე დუდიშულო, მუჭოთ ჯამიერი ზალამიშ გჷმორჩქინა. ინფორმაციაშ მიმაჭირინდაფალეფს დო ვიკიპედიაშ მინჯეეფს, ადმინისტრატორეფს, ოპერატორეფს ვარა   დო მაკითხირალეფს შქას ვა რე დოდვალირი მუთუნინერი აპიჯაფა. ათეშენ, ვიკიპედიაშ დინორე ვა გჷნირთუ იურიდიული პრეტენზიეფიშ ოკითხუთ. თქვა გიღუნა ვიკიპედიაშ ანგუაშ ალობა, მორო ვართ თენას იგურხონარებუ მუდგაინი იურიდიული გამამინჯალა  - თქვა ირინუანთ ინფორმაციას დორხველი ზალამით.
 ნამდგარდია ოვაჭარე შანი, მარკეფი, ორგანიზაციეფიშ, მეკონეფიშ ჯოხოეფი, დიზაინი დო ვიკიპედიას გჷმორინაფილი შხვა ვადუდიშული ინფორმაციაშენ ოავტორე ნებეფს ღვალენა თინეფიშ კანონიერი მინჯეეფი. ვიკიპედიაშ დინორე იფაჩუ   ლიცენზიათ, დო თქვა შეილებუნა თინეფიშ გჷმორინაფა ხვალე თე ლიცენზიაშ პიჯალეფიშ ალებათ. რშუდანი, ნამდა თქვა  
 რთხიინთ თაშნეშე გეთოლწონათ, ნამდა ნამთინე ვიკიპედია მილარე  ,   დო დოჸუნს ამერიკაშ კანონდვალირაფას. თქვანი ქიანაშ კანონეფქ შილებე ვა გოხურგუანი ზიტყვაშ დუდიშალა თიშნერ ფირჩას, მუჭოთ ამერიკაშ კანონდვალირაფაქ დო    .
 , რახანით რე ზოხორინელი დუდიშული ჯარალაუა, დორსხუაფილი ოგანმანათლებელე, კულტურული დო ინფორმაციული რესურსიშ დარსხუაფალო. ინფორმაცია ვიკიპედიას იფაჩუ   ლიცენზიათ.
 მარდის გიგანთ, თე ხასჷლაშ ოკითხირალო ბორჯიშ მუკოჸოთამაშენ. მენდი მიღუნა, ნამდა ვიკიპედია ქჷდოიტალენა ხვალე ჯგირი ინნახანტეფს.


URL: https://zu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://zu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://arz.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%D9%8A%D9%83%D9%8A%D8%A8%D9%8A%D8%AF%D9%8A%D8%A7:%D8%AA%D9%86%D8%A7%D8%B2%D9%84_%D8%B9%D9%86_%D9%85%D8%B3%D8%A6%D9%88%D9%84%D9%8A%D9%87_%D8%B9%D9%85%D9%88%D9%85%D9%89

Content: 
 ويكيبيديا ها موسوعه انترنت تعاونيه مفتوحة المحتوى, و هيا شراكه بين المتطوعين الافراد و المجموعات و اللى بيشتغلو على تطوير مصدر معرفى بشرى عام. بتسمح بنية المشروع لكل شخص متصل بالانترنت يعدل المحتوى. لازم تعرف ان مافيش فى المشروع داه حاجه بتلزم انه تمت مصادرته من اهل الخبره المؤهلين لتزويدك بمعلومات معتمده او دقيقه او كامله.
 داه ما بيعنيش انك مش هتلاقى معلومات قيمه و دقيقه فى ويكيبيديا, بالعكس فيه كتير منها, بس بالرغم من داه  , محتوى كل مقاله ممكن يكون اتعدل او   او اتغير من افراد ما بتتطابقش آرائهم مع النصوص المعرفيه فى المجالات المتعلقه بالمقاله. لاحظ ان اكتر الموسوعات و المصادر فيها اخلاء مسؤوليه كمان.
 محررو مجتمع ويكيبيديا النشطين بيستعملو ادوات زى تغذيات   و   عشان يراقبو تعديلات المحتوى و المحتوى الجديد, و بالرغم من دا ويكيبيديا مافيهاش مصادرة اقران رسميه, القراء ممكن يصححو الاخطاء او يشتركو فى الاراء, بس مش مجبرين بدا و بالتالى كل المعلومات هنا مالهاش اى ضمانات دايما, و حتى المقالات اللى تمت مراجعتها عبر الاقران الرسميه او هيا  , ممكن يحصل عليها تعديل مش مناسب قبل ما تقراها.
 
 المعلومات هنا باتقدم بشكل حر, و مافيش عقد بينك و بين مستخدمين او مسؤولين الموقع داه او مسؤولين الخوادم اللى بتستضيف معلومات الموقع, و لا الافراد المساهمين و لا اداريين المشاريع و لا مشغلين النظام, و لا كل مين ليه صله بالمشروع داه  , و لا بالمشاريع الشقيقه, كمان هما مش عرضه لادعاءاتك المباشره ضدهم. ليك رخصه محدوده بنسخ اى حاجه من الموقع داه, و الرخصه ما بتدلش لا تصريحا او تلميحا على اى التزام تعاقدى او غير تعاقدى من جهة ويكيبيديا او واحد من وكلائها او اعضائها او منظميها او مستخدمين تانيين.
 بخصوص استعمالك او تعديلك للمعلومات,   الا حسب رخصة المشاع الابداعى النسبه-الترخيص بالمثل 3.0 (CC-BY-SA) و رخصه جنو للوثائق الحره (GFDL), و ما بيتحملش اى شخص فى ويكيبيديا مسؤولية تغيير او تنقيح او تعديل او حذف معلومات ممكن تنشرها انت على ويكيبيديا او اى من المشاريع المرتبطه بيها.
 كل علامه تجاريه او علامه خدمه او علامه جماعيه او حقوق تصميم و و الى زييها من الحقوق المشار ليها او المستعمله او المستشهد بيها فى مقالات ويكيبيديا هيا ملك لاصحابها بالكامل, دا ما بيستلزمش انه جايز ليك تستعملها لاى غرض غير الاستعمال المعلوماتى المماثل او المشابه للى كان بيقصده المؤلفين الاصليين للمقالات فى ويكيبيديا حسب رخصة المشاع الابداعى النسبه-الترخيص بالمثل 3.0 (CC-BY-SA) و رخصه جنو للوثائق الحره (GFDL). مواقع ويكيبيديا و ويكيميديا ما بتديش تاييد من اصحاب الحقوق و لا المشاركه معهم, و ويكيبيديا مالهاش انها تمنح حقوق استعمال المواد المحميه الا حسب الرخص المذكوره. استخدامك لاى من المواد دى او اللى شبهها هيكون على مسؤوليتك الخاصه.
 ويكيبيديا بتحتوى مواد ممكن تظهر فيها صور اشخاص ممكن التعرف عليهم سواء كانوا عايشيين او اتوفو مؤخرا. استعمال صور الاحياء او اللى اتوفو, كلها مقيده حسب ضوابط حقوق الشخصيه فى بعض النظم القضائيه, بمعزل عن حالة حقوق النشر الخاصه بيها. قبل استعمال الانواع دى من المحتوى, لو سمحت التاكد من حصولك على حق استعمالها حسب القانون اللى بيتطابق مع الظروف المطلوبه لاستعمالك.  .
 ممكن تقرا فى ويكيبيديا معلومات و انت فى دوله او بعض المناطق اللى ما بتسمحش بنشر المعلومات دى. لازم تعرف ان قاعدة بيانات ويكيبيديا موجوده فى الولايات المتحده الامريكيه, و بيحافظ عليها بموجب الحمايه اللى بتسمح بيها القوانين المحليه و الفدراليه هناك. القوانين اللى فى دولتك او بعض مناطقها ممكن ما تحميش او ما بتسمحش ببعض الانواع من المواد او التوزيع. ويكيبيديا ما بتشجعش على خرق القوانين, و ما تقدرش تتحمل مسؤولية اى خروقات للقوانين دى.
 لو احتجت مشوره اختصاصيه (زى مشوره طبيه او قانونيه او ماليه او ادارة مخاطر), لازم تطلبها من اهل الاختصاص المرخصين او المعروفين فى مجالهم.


URL: https://xh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://os.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8:%D0%91%C3%A6%D1%80%D0%BD

Content: Википеди у онлайн, гом, æнгомæй аразгæ энциклопеди. Проекты куыст ахæм у, æмæ чифæнды дæр, интернетмæ бахизæн кæмæн ис, йæ бон у ам исты ива. Дæ хорзæхæй, дæ зæрдыл дар уый, æмæ ам цы ссарай, уый, гæнæн ис, эксперттæ нæ ныффыстой. 
 Ай нæ нысан кæны, æмæ ды Википедийы бæлвырд информаци не ссардзынæ. Бирæ архайджытæ зилынц, цæмæй йæ æрммæг бæлвырд уа, æмæ рæстæгæй рæстæгмæ бæлвырд информаци фылдæр кæндзæн. Фæлæ уæддæр,  . Уый йеддæмæ, цыфæнды уац дæр, гæнæн ис, зианхæссæг архайæгæй ивд æрцæуа, æмæ йæ цалынмæ æндæр архайæг ма рацараза, уæдмæ уац æвзæр уагы æвдыст цæудзæн. Æндæр энциклопедитæн дæр сæ фылдæрæн ай хуызæн бæрнисæн ис.
 Википедийы æрмæг мæнг куы разына, æмæ дзы ды уый тыххæй исты хуызы куы фæ æфхæрд уай, уæд уый бæрн   Википидийы архайджытыл ис,   йæ спонсортыл æмæ   Википедиимæ искуыд баст чи у, ахæмтыл.


URL: https://os.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8:%D0%91%C3%A6%D1%80%D0%BD

Content: Википеди у онлайн, гом, æнгомæй аразгæ энциклопеди. Проекты куыст ахæм у, æмæ чифæнды дæр, интернетмæ бахизæн кæмæн ис, йæ бон у ам исты ива. Дæ хорзæхæй, дæ зæрдыл дар уый, æмæ ам цы ссарай, уый, гæнæн ис, эксперттæ нæ ныффыстой. 
 Ай нæ нысан кæны, æмæ ды Википедийы бæлвырд информаци не ссардзынæ. Бирæ архайджытæ зилынц, цæмæй йæ æрммæг бæлвырд уа, æмæ рæстæгæй рæстæгмæ бæлвырд информаци фылдæр кæндзæн. Фæлæ уæддæр,  . Уый йеддæмæ, цыфæнды уац дæр, гæнæн ис, зианхæссæг архайæгæй ивд æрцæуа, æмæ йæ цалынмæ æндæр архайæг ма рацараза, уæдмæ уац æвзæр уагы æвдыст цæудзæн. Æндæр энциклопедитæн дæр сæ фылдæрæн ай хуызæн бæрнисæн ис.
 Википедийы æрмæг мæнг куы разына, æмæ дзы ды уый тыххæй исты хуызы куы фæ æфхæрд уай, уæд уый бæрн   Википидийы архайджытыл ис,   йæ спонсортыл æмæ   Википедиимæ искуыд баст чи у, ахæмтыл.


URL: https://xh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://ia.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Declaration_general_de_non-responsabilitate

Content: W  N  D  G  D  V 
  es un encyclopedia collaborative a contento aperte, isto es, un association voluntari de individuos e gruppos que disveloppa un ressource commun de cognoscentia human. Le structura del projecto permitte a omnes con un connexion a Internet e un navigator del web alterar su contento. Per favor sia informate que nihil trovate hic ha necessarimente essite revidite per professionales con le expertise requirite pro provider vos de informationes complete, accurate o digne de fide.
 Isto non es a dicer que vos non trovara informationes de valor e accurate in   multe vices vos lo facera. Nonobstante,   Le contento de cata articulo specific pote recentemente haber essite cambiate, vandalisate o alterate per alicuno cuje opinion non corresponde con le stato del cognoscentia in le campos pertinente.
 Nos es in processo de cercar methodos a seliger e dar emphase a versiones digne de fide de articulos. Nostre communitate active de editores usa instrumentos como le paginas   e   pro surveliar contento nove e cambiate. Nonobstante,   non es uniformemente revidite per pares; ben que le lectores pote corriger errores o ingagiar in   casual, illes non ha obligation legal pro facer isto, ergo tote le informationes legite hic es absolutemente sin garantia implicite de aptitude pro qualcunque fin o uso. Mesmo le articulos informalmente revidite per pares o   pote haber essite modificate inappropriatemente plus tarde, justo ante que vos los vide.
 Per favor assecura que vos comprende que le information disponibile hic es providite liberemente, e que nulle sorta de accordo o contracto es create inter vos e le proprietarios o usatores de iste sito, le proprietarios del servitores in que illo es albergate, le contributores individual de  , alicun administratores del projecto, operatores de systema o alicuno altere qui es   con iste projecto o projectos-sorores subjecte a vostre reclamationes contra illes directemente. A vos es impartite un licentia limitate a copiar qualcunque cosa de iste sito; isto nullemente crea o implica responsabilitate contractual o extracontractual del parte de   o de su agentes, membros, organisatores o altere usatores.
 Il ha   concernente vostre uso o modification de iste information ultra le   (GFDL); e nulle persona a   es responabile in caso que alicuno cambia, edita, modifica o elimina alicun information que vos pote publicar in   o in un de su projectos associate.
 Omne marcas commercial, marcas de servicio, marcas collective, derectos de designo, derectos de personalitate o derectos similar que es mentionate, usate o citate in le articulos del encyclopedia Wikipedia es le proprietate de lor proprietarios respective. Lor uso hic non implica que vos pote usar los pro altere fin que pro le mesme o un similar uso informational como contemplate per le autores original de iste articulos de Wikipedia sub le schema de licentiamento GFDL. Si non alteremente indicate, le sitos Wikipedia e Wikimedia non es appoiate per, ni affiliate con le possessores de tal derectos e per consequente   non pote impartir derectos a usar materiales alteremente protegite.  
 Le publication de information trovate in   pote esser in violation del leges del pais o jurisdiction ab ubi vos vide iste information. Le base de datos de Wikipedia es immagazinate in un servitor in le Stato de   in le  , e es mantenite in referentia al protectiones date sub lege local e federal. Le leges in vostre pais o jurisdiction pote non proteger o permitter le mesme typos de parola o distribution.   non incoragia le violation de leges; e non pote esser responsabile pro violationes de tal leges, in caso que vos face ligamines a iste dominio o usa, reproduce, o republica le information continite in isto.
 Si vos besonia consilio specific (per exemplo, medic, legal, financiari, o de administration de riscos) per favor cerca un professinoal qui es licentiate o experte in ille area. Vide
 ,  , e  
pro declarationes specific de exemption de responsabilitates.
 Gratias pro prender le tempore a leger iste pagina, e per favor gaude de vostre uso de  .
 Ben que altere encyclopedias, differentemente que Wikipedia, es professionalmente revidite per pares, illos ancora non garanti lor contento.
 Vide equalmente:  


URL: https://ia.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Declaration_general_de_non-responsabilitate

Content: W  N  D  G  D  V 
  es un encyclopedia collaborative a contento aperte, isto es, un association voluntari de individuos e gruppos que disveloppa un ressource commun de cognoscentia human. Le structura del projecto permitte a omnes con un connexion a Internet e un navigator del web alterar su contento. Per favor sia informate que nihil trovate hic ha necessarimente essite revidite per professionales con le expertise requirite pro provider vos de informationes complete, accurate o digne de fide.
 Isto non es a dicer que vos non trovara informationes de valor e accurate in   multe vices vos lo facera. Nonobstante,   Le contento de cata articulo specific pote recentemente haber essite cambiate, vandalisate o alterate per alicuno cuje opinion non corresponde con le stato del cognoscentia in le campos pertinente.
 Nos es in processo de cercar methodos a seliger e dar emphase a versiones digne de fide de articulos. Nostre communitate active de editores usa instrumentos como le paginas   e   pro surveliar contento nove e cambiate. Nonobstante,   non es uniformemente revidite per pares; ben que le lectores pote corriger errores o ingagiar in   casual, illes non ha obligation legal pro facer isto, ergo tote le informationes legite hic es absolutemente sin garantia implicite de aptitude pro qualcunque fin o uso. Mesmo le articulos informalmente revidite per pares o   pote haber essite modificate inappropriatemente plus tarde, justo ante que vos los vide.
 Per favor assecura que vos comprende que le information disponibile hic es providite liberemente, e que nulle sorta de accordo o contracto es create inter vos e le proprietarios o usatores de iste sito, le proprietarios del servitores in que illo es albergate, le contributores individual de  , alicun administratores del projecto, operatores de systema o alicuno altere qui es   con iste projecto o projectos-sorores subjecte a vostre reclamationes contra illes directemente. A vos es impartite un licentia limitate a copiar qualcunque cosa de iste sito; isto nullemente crea o implica responsabilitate contractual o extracontractual del parte de   o de su agentes, membros, organisatores o altere usatores.
 Il ha   concernente vostre uso o modification de iste information ultra le   (GFDL); e nulle persona a   es responabile in caso que alicuno cambia, edita, modifica o elimina alicun information que vos pote publicar in   o in un de su projectos associate.
 Omne marcas commercial, marcas de servicio, marcas collective, derectos de designo, derectos de personalitate o derectos similar que es mentionate, usate o citate in le articulos del encyclopedia Wikipedia es le proprietate de lor proprietarios respective. Lor uso hic non implica que vos pote usar los pro altere fin que pro le mesme o un similar uso informational como contemplate per le autores original de iste articulos de Wikipedia sub le schema de licentiamento GFDL. Si non alteremente indicate, le sitos Wikipedia e Wikimedia non es appoiate per, ni affiliate con le possessores de tal derectos e per consequente   non pote impartir derectos a usar materiales alteremente protegite.  
 Le publication de information trovate in   pote esser in violation del leges del pais o jurisdiction ab ubi vos vide iste information. Le base de datos de Wikipedia es immagazinate in un servitor in le Stato de   in le  , e es mantenite in referentia al protectiones date sub lege local e federal. Le leges in vostre pais o jurisdiction pote non proteger o permitter le mesme typos de parola o distribution.   non incoragia le violation de leges; e non pote esser responsabile pro violationes de tal leges, in caso que vos face ligamines a iste dominio o usa, reproduce, o republica le information continite in isto.
 Si vos besonia consilio specific (per exemplo, medic, legal, financiari, o de administration de riscos) per favor cerca un professinoal qui es licentiate o experte in ille area. Vide
 ,  , e  
pro declarationes specific de exemption de responsabilitates.
 Gratias pro prender le tempore a leger iste pagina, e per favor gaude de vostre uso de  .
 Ben que altere encyclopedias, differentemente que Wikipedia, es professionalmente revidite per pares, illos ancora non garanti lor contento.
 Vide equalmente:  


URL: https://id.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Penyangkalan_umum

Content: Wikipedia adalah ensiklopedia isi terbuka dalam jaringan yang kolaboratif. Artinya, Wikipedia merupakan sekumpulan individu dan kelompok yang bekerja sukarela dalam membangun sumber daya bersama berupa pengetahuan umat manusia. Struktur proyeknya memungkinkan siapa saja yang memiliki sambungan Internet untuk mengubah isinya. Harap diketahui bahwa semua yang ada di sini belum ditinjau oleh orang-orang dengan keahlian yang dibutuhkan untuk menyajikan informasi yang lengkap, akurat, dan tepercaya.
 Hal tersebut tidak berarti bahwa Anda tidak dapat menemukan informasi berharga dan akurat di Wikipedia. Anda akan sering menemukannya. Akan tetapi,  . Isi artikel mana pun mungkin baru saja diubah, dirusak, atau diganti oleh seseorang yang opininya tidak sesuai dengan pengetahuan di bidang yang terkait. Harap diingat bahwa kebanyakan ensiklopedia dan karya referensi lainnya  .
 Komunitas penyunting kami yang aktif menggunakan perangkat seperti   dan   untuk mengawasi penambahan dan perubahan isi. Namun, Wikipedia tidak mendapat penilaian sejawat secara merata. Walaupun para pembaca dapat memperbaiki kesalahan atau terlibat dalam proses   ( ) biasa, mereka tidak punya kewajiban hukum untuk melakukannya sehingga semua informasi yang disajikan di sini tidak disertai jaminan kelayakan untuk keperluan atau penggunaan apa pun. Bahkan, artikel yang telah melalui proses penilaian sejawat informal atau   bisa saja telah disunting secara tidak benar tepat sebelum Anda membacanya.
 
 Harap yakinkan bahwa Anda mengerti bahwa informasi yang ada di sini disediakan secara secara bebas dan tidak ada perjanjian atau kontrak yang dibuat antara Anda dan para pemilik atau pengguna situs ini, pemilik server yang ditempati, individu kontributor Wikipedia, pengurus proyek, atau siapa pun yang dengan cara apa pun   dengan proyek ini atau proyek kerabatnya yang dapat dijadikan dasar untuk melakukan tuntutan secara langsung terhadap mereka. Anda diberikan suatu lisensi terbatas untuk menyalin apa pun dari situs ini; hal tersebut tidak menyebabkan suatu kewajiban kontraktual atau ekstrakontraktual bagi pihak Wikipedia, agen, anggota, penyelenggara, atau pengguna lain.
  mengenai penggunaan atau modifikasi informasi ini di bawah   ( , GFDL); juga tidak ada seseorang di Wikipedia yang bertanggung jawab jika seseorang mengubah, menyunting, memodifikasi, atau membuang informasi apa pun yang mungkin Anda masukkan di Wikipedia atau proyek lain yang berhubungan.
 Segala bentuk merek dagang, merek jasa, merek kolektif, dan hak desain atau hak-hak semacamnya yang disebutkan, digunakan, ataupun dikutip di artikel apa pun di ensiklopedia Wikipedia adalah hak milik (properti) dari pemiliknya masing-masing. Penggunannya di sini tidak berarti bahwa Anda (pembaca) dapat menggunakannya untuk kepentingan apa pun selain dari penggunaan yang sama atau mirip, yaitu penggunaan secara informasional sebagaimana yang dikehendaki oleh para penulis di artikel Wikipedia tersebut di bawah  .
 Kecuali disebutkan sebaliknya, maka situs-situs Wikipedia dan Wikimedia tidak mempromosikan dan tidak terafiliasi dengan pemilik merek dan hak-hak di atas, sehingga Wikipedia tidak dapat memberikan izin untuk menggunakan materi-materi yang dilindungi tersebut. Jika Anda menggunakannya, maka Anda menggunakannya dengan risiko sendiri.
 Wikipedia mengandung materi-materi yang mungkin menampilkan wajah dan penampakan seseorang yang masih hidup atau yang baru saja meninggal. Penggunakan gambar, foto, dan materi sejenisnya dari individu yang masih hidup maupun baru saja meninggal, di beberapa yuridiksi hukum, dibatasi oleh hukum terkait  , yang independen atau terlepas dari status hak ciptanya (pembuatan fotonya).
 Sebelum menggunakan konten sejenis ini, mohon pastikan bahwa Anda (pembaca) memiliki hak untuk menggunakannya di bawah hukum perundang-undangan yang berlaku di tempat Anda untuk kepentingan yang Anda maksudkan.  
 Publikasi informasi yang ditemukan di Wikipedia mungkin melanggar hukum negara atau yurisdiksi di wilayah tempat Anda membaca informasi ini. Pangkalan data Wikipedia disimpan di peladen yang berlokasi di Amerika Serikat, dan berada dalam perlindungan hukum lokal dan federal setempat. Hukum di negara atau yurisdiksi Anda mungkin tidak melindungi atau mengizinkan pembicaraan atau distribusi yang serupa. Wikipedia tidak mendorong pelanggaran hukum apa pun dan tidak dapat dikenai tanggung jawab untuk segala pelanggaran hukum tersebut jika Anda menghubungkan ke ranah ( ) ini atau menggunakan, mereproduksi, atau menerbitkan ulang informasi yang tercantum di sini.
 Jika Anda mencari nasihat spesifik (contohnya medis, legal, keuangan, atau manajemen risiko), silakan cari seorang profesional yang berlisensi atau memiliki pengetahuan pada bidang tersebut.
  Kebanyakan pengajar dan pekerja profesional tidak mengakui penggunaan   (seperti ensiklopedia) sebagai sumber informasi satu-satunya—memasukkan ensiklopedia sebagai rujukan penting di bagian catatan kaki atau daftar pustaka akan mengakibatkan tulisan Anda dicoret atau diturunkan nilainya. Gunakan artikel Wikipedia untuk mencari informasi dasar, makna kata dan istilah pencarian, serta acuan awal sebelum melakukan penelitian lebih lanjut.
 Seperti sumber informasi yang ditulis masyarakat umum lainnya, selalu ada potensi kekeliruan di dalam artikel Wikipedia—bandingkan informasi yang Anda dapat dengan sumber-sumber lain dan baca   kami untuk ketentuan lebih lanjut.
 (Pesan di atas ditampilkan setiap kali pembaca mengeklik   di suatu halaman )
  
 Dasar-dasar Wikipedia
 Prinsip dasar dalam sejarah
 Ringkasan konvensi Wikipedia
 Berlaku di semua proyek (di meta-wiki)
 Daftar lengkap kebijakan resmi
  


URL: https://id.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Penyangkalan_umum

Content: Wikipedia adalah ensiklopedia isi terbuka dalam jaringan yang kolaboratif. Artinya, Wikipedia merupakan sekumpulan individu dan kelompok yang bekerja sukarela dalam membangun sumber daya bersama berupa pengetahuan umat manusia. Struktur proyeknya memungkinkan siapa saja yang memiliki sambungan Internet untuk mengubah isinya. Harap diketahui bahwa semua yang ada di sini belum ditinjau oleh orang-orang dengan keahlian yang dibutuhkan untuk menyajikan informasi yang lengkap, akurat, dan tepercaya.
 Hal tersebut tidak berarti bahwa Anda tidak dapat menemukan informasi berharga dan akurat di Wikipedia. Anda akan sering menemukannya. Akan tetapi,  . Isi artikel mana pun mungkin baru saja diubah, dirusak, atau diganti oleh seseorang yang opininya tidak sesuai dengan pengetahuan di bidang yang terkait. Harap diingat bahwa kebanyakan ensiklopedia dan karya referensi lainnya  .
 Komunitas penyunting kami yang aktif menggunakan perangkat seperti   dan   untuk mengawasi penambahan dan perubahan isi. Namun, Wikipedia tidak mendapat penilaian sejawat secara merata. Walaupun para pembaca dapat memperbaiki kesalahan atau terlibat dalam proses   ( ) biasa, mereka tidak punya kewajiban hukum untuk melakukannya sehingga semua informasi yang disajikan di sini tidak disertai jaminan kelayakan untuk keperluan atau penggunaan apa pun. Bahkan, artikel yang telah melalui proses penilaian sejawat informal atau   bisa saja telah disunting secara tidak benar tepat sebelum Anda membacanya.
 
 Harap yakinkan bahwa Anda mengerti bahwa informasi yang ada di sini disediakan secara secara bebas dan tidak ada perjanjian atau kontrak yang dibuat antara Anda dan para pemilik atau pengguna situs ini, pemilik server yang ditempati, individu kontributor Wikipedia, pengurus proyek, atau siapa pun yang dengan cara apa pun   dengan proyek ini atau proyek kerabatnya yang dapat dijadikan dasar untuk melakukan tuntutan secara langsung terhadap mereka. Anda diberikan suatu lisensi terbatas untuk menyalin apa pun dari situs ini; hal tersebut tidak menyebabkan suatu kewajiban kontraktual atau ekstrakontraktual bagi pihak Wikipedia, agen, anggota, penyelenggara, atau pengguna lain.
  mengenai penggunaan atau modifikasi informasi ini di bawah   ( , GFDL); juga tidak ada seseorang di Wikipedia yang bertanggung jawab jika seseorang mengubah, menyunting, memodifikasi, atau membuang informasi apa pun yang mungkin Anda masukkan di Wikipedia atau proyek lain yang berhubungan.
 Segala bentuk merek dagang, merek jasa, merek kolektif, dan hak desain atau hak-hak semacamnya yang disebutkan, digunakan, ataupun dikutip di artikel apa pun di ensiklopedia Wikipedia adalah hak milik (properti) dari pemiliknya masing-masing. Penggunannya di sini tidak berarti bahwa Anda (pembaca) dapat menggunakannya untuk kepentingan apa pun selain dari penggunaan yang sama atau mirip, yaitu penggunaan secara informasional sebagaimana yang dikehendaki oleh para penulis di artikel Wikipedia tersebut di bawah  .
 Kecuali disebutkan sebaliknya, maka situs-situs Wikipedia dan Wikimedia tidak mempromosikan dan tidak terafiliasi dengan pemilik merek dan hak-hak di atas, sehingga Wikipedia tidak dapat memberikan izin untuk menggunakan materi-materi yang dilindungi tersebut. Jika Anda menggunakannya, maka Anda menggunakannya dengan risiko sendiri.
 Wikipedia mengandung materi-materi yang mungkin menampilkan wajah dan penampakan seseorang yang masih hidup atau yang baru saja meninggal. Penggunakan gambar, foto, dan materi sejenisnya dari individu yang masih hidup maupun baru saja meninggal, di beberapa yuridiksi hukum, dibatasi oleh hukum terkait  , yang independen atau terlepas dari status hak ciptanya (pembuatan fotonya).
 Sebelum menggunakan konten sejenis ini, mohon pastikan bahwa Anda (pembaca) memiliki hak untuk menggunakannya di bawah hukum perundang-undangan yang berlaku di tempat Anda untuk kepentingan yang Anda maksudkan.  
 Publikasi informasi yang ditemukan di Wikipedia mungkin melanggar hukum negara atau yurisdiksi di wilayah tempat Anda membaca informasi ini. Pangkalan data Wikipedia disimpan di peladen yang berlokasi di Amerika Serikat, dan berada dalam perlindungan hukum lokal dan federal setempat. Hukum di negara atau yurisdiksi Anda mungkin tidak melindungi atau mengizinkan pembicaraan atau distribusi yang serupa. Wikipedia tidak mendorong pelanggaran hukum apa pun dan tidak dapat dikenai tanggung jawab untuk segala pelanggaran hukum tersebut jika Anda menghubungkan ke ranah ( ) ini atau menggunakan, mereproduksi, atau menerbitkan ulang informasi yang tercantum di sini.
 Jika Anda mencari nasihat spesifik (contohnya medis, legal, keuangan, atau manajemen risiko), silakan cari seorang profesional yang berlisensi atau memiliki pengetahuan pada bidang tersebut.
  Kebanyakan pengajar dan pekerja profesional tidak mengakui penggunaan   (seperti ensiklopedia) sebagai sumber informasi satu-satunya—memasukkan ensiklopedia sebagai rujukan penting di bagian catatan kaki atau daftar pustaka akan mengakibatkan tulisan Anda dicoret atau diturunkan nilainya. Gunakan artikel Wikipedia untuk mencari informasi dasar, makna kata dan istilah pencarian, serta acuan awal sebelum melakukan penelitian lebih lanjut.
 Seperti sumber informasi yang ditulis masyarakat umum lainnya, selalu ada potensi kekeliruan di dalam artikel Wikipedia—bandingkan informasi yang Anda dapat dengan sumber-sumber lain dan baca   kami untuk ketentuan lebih lanjut.
 (Pesan di atas ditampilkan setiap kali pembaca mengeklik   di suatu halaman )
  
 Dasar-dasar Wikipedia
 Prinsip dasar dalam sejarah
 Ringkasan konvensi Wikipedia
 Berlaku di semua proyek (di meta-wiki)
 Daftar lengkap kebijakan resmi
  


URL: https://hu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:Jogi_nyilatkozat

Content: 
 
 A   nyílt tartalmú online lexikon, vagyis személyek és csoportok szerveződése annak érdekében, hogy az emberi tudás egyetemes gyűjteményét hozzák létre és azt folyamatosan fejlesszék. A felépítése lehetővé teszi bármely internet kapcsolattal és World Wide Web eléréssel rendelkező egyénnek, hogy az itt található tartalmakat tetszőlegesen módosítsa. Ezért mindenképpen vedd figyelembe, hogy semmiféle itt olvasható tartalom nem ment át olyan szaklektoráláson vagy ellenőrzésen, melyet az adott területek szakértői végeztek volna annak érdekében, hogy biztosítsák, hogy az adott szócikkek szakmailag teljes, pontos vagy megbízható információkat tartalmaznak bármilyen, a Wikipédiában olvasható témában.
 Ez egyáltalán nem jelenti azt, hogy a Wikipédia nem értékes, hasznos és pontos információkat tartalmaz, azonban  . Lehetséges, hogy az információt percekkel korábban módosította valaki, akinek a tudása, szándéka vagy véleménye nem esik egybe az adott területen elvárhatóval. Jelenleg is dolgozunk egy olyan megoldáson, ami lehetővé teszi a szócikkek „megbízható változatának” elérését (ez egyelőre nem jelent tartalmi ellenőrzést, csak az úgynevezett   és a nyilvánvalóan értelmetlen tartalom kiszűrését). Az ellenőrzöttséghez legközelebb álló lehetőség jelenleg a   csoportja, de ezeket a szócikkeket sem ellenőrizte független szakértői gárda, és bárki szerkeszthette a közelmúltban úgy, hogy a változtatást érdemben (azaz szakmailag) még senki nem ellenőrizte.
 A Wikipédia nem folyamatosan ellenőrzött kiadvány. Míg bármely résztvevő képes a hibák kijavítására vagy a téves információk eltávolítására, senki nem köteles ezt megtenni, emiatt semmilyen a Wikipédiában található információval kapcsolatban nem vállalunk garanciát, és nem vállaljuk, hogy az információ bármilyen hasznos célra felhasználható volna.
 
 Kérünk, hogy a szükséges körültekintéssel járj el annak érdekében, hogy meggyőződj arról, hogy a Wikipédia cikkek tartalma helyes és megfelel a céljaidnak. Ha bármilyen veszélyes, illegális vagy etikátlan tartalommal találkozol, vedd figyelembe, hogy ezt az információt bárki elhelyezhette a Wikipédián, és semmi garancia nincs arra, hogy megfelelő jogosultságokkal vagy képességekkel rendelkezik arra nézve, hogy a leírt tevékenység vagy dolog használata vagy alkalmazása biztonságos vagy legális, megfelel annak hogy megelőzze a sérülést, betegséget vagy bármilyen személyi, erkölcsi vagy jogi kárt. Ha szakszerű tanácsra van szükséged (például orvosi, jogi, vagy pénzügyi tanácsokra), akkor vedd fel a kapcsolatot az e téren tevékenykedő szakemberekkel.
 A Wikipédia nem vonható felelősségre semmilyen a benne található információ által okozott kárért, mivel ez magánszemélyek önkéntes társasága azon célból, hogy nyílt oktatási, kulturális és információs erőforrást hozzanak létre. Ez a közlés egyoldalú és tájékoztató jellegű, így nem képez szerződést vagy megegyezést közted és a Wikipédia között a   feltételein túl, amennyiben követed az  .
 
 A Wikipédia számos orvostudományi témakörbe tartozó szócikket tartalmaz, de semmiféle garancia sincs arra, hogy ezen szócikkek tartalma pontos. Nincs biztosíték arra sem, hogy az orvostudományi szócikkekben található állítások és kijelentések teljes mértékben igazak, helyesek, vagy precízek. Még ha egy állítás szerint egy gyógymód egy esetre megfelelő, az nem jelenti azt, hogy az Önre vagy az Ön tüneteire érvényes.
 A Wikipédián található orvosi információk legjobb esetben is csak általános tanácsok, mivel nem helyettesítik, és nem is helyettesíthetik az orvosi végzettségű szakértő (orvos, pszichiáter, ápoló, gyógyszerész, stb.) javallatát. A Wikipédia nem orvosi tanácsadó!
 Sem a Wikipedia.org, sem a   nem hozható összefüggésbe orvosi szolgáltatások, szakvélemények stb. ajánlásával vagy felkínálásával. Természetesen támogatjuk Önt abban, hogy közreműködjön az orvostudományi vagy egészséggel kapcsolatos témakörökben, és az itt található anyagokat is felhasználhatja a   licenc szerint.
 
 A Wikipédia számos   cikket tartalmaz, de semmi nem garantálja e cikkek pontosságát. Semmiképpen nem szavatolhatjuk azt, hogy ezen cikkek tartalma jogi szempontból igaz, pontos és helyes. A jogszabályok jelentős része országról országra változik, esetenként igen gyorsan módosulhat. Még ha egy kijelentés a jogszabályokról pontos, akkor is előfordulhat, hogy csak az adott jogi környezetben vagy az információt közlő személy esetében helytálló; lehetséges az is, hogy az információ közlése óta a jogszabályok megváltoztak, módosították őket, hatályon kívül helyezték, esetleg más jogszabályokkal helyettesítették azóta, hogy a közlés a Wikipédiában megjelent.
 A Wikipédiában megjelenő információ a legjobb esetben is általános esetekre vonatkozik és semmiképpen sem helyettesítheti a témában jártas szakértő jogász tanácsát, aki az eset körülményeit pontosan figyelembe véve képes jogi tájékoztatást adni. Az ajánljuk, vedd fel a kapcsolatot jogi szaktanácsadásra szakosodott személlyel vagy céggel annak érdekében, hogy megfelelő jogi tanácsot kaphass.
 Természetesen arra biztatunk, hogy minél több   kapcsolatos szócikket írj, illetve a joggal kapcsolatos szócikkek tartalmát segíts pontosítani és aktualizálni bármilyen Creative Commons Nevezd meg! – Így add tovább! 4.0 licencnek megfelelő anyag felhasználásával.


URL: https://ilo.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Sapasap_a_renunsia

Content: 
 Ti Wikipedia ket maysa nga online nga addaan ti nawaya ken silulukat a linaon ken nagtitinnulungan nga ensiklopedia, daytoy ket sitatallugod dagiti gunglo ken bunggoy nga agub-obra nga agparang-ay ti maysa a kadawyan a pamuspusan ti pannakaammo ti nagtagitaoan.
 Saan nga ibagbaga a saan ka a makabiruk ti napateg ken agpayso a pakaammo ditoy Wikipedia; adun to a darikmat a makabirukam ditoy. Nupay kasta,   Ti linaon ti ania man a maysa a naited nga artikulo ket mabalin a nasukatan, na-bandelismo wenno binaliwan ti sinoman nga addaan ti kapanunotan a saan nga agpada iti kasasad ti pannakaammo kadagiti maipaay a paset. Ipaammo a kaaduan kadagiti ensiklopedia ken ob-obra a pagibasaran ket addaan da ti kastoy a kapadpada a  . 
 Agub-obra kami ti sabsabali a banag ken waya ti panagpili kadagiti mapagtalken a bersion dagiti artikulo. Dagiti nasiglat nga agur-urnos iti daytoy a komunidad ket agus-usar da kadagiti ramramit a kas dagiti   ken   tapno masiputan da dagiti baro ken nasuksukatan a linaon. Nupay kasta, ti Wikipedia ket saan nga agpapada a mairepaso; bayat a dagiti agbasbasa ket mabalin da nga agpalaing kadagiti biddut wenno makitulag da ti kadawyan a pangrepaso, awanen da ti linteg nga agaramid ken isu a dagiti pakaammo a mabasa ditoy ket awan ti maipaltiing a garantia iti maitutop para iti ania man a maipanggep wenno ania man a panagusar. Uray dagita artikulo a naipatalgedan ti saan a pormal a panagrepaso wenno dagiti panagaramid kadagiti napili nga artikulo, mabalin a madi wenno saan a nasayaat ti pannakabaliw wenno pannaka-urnos da sakbay a kinitam dagitoy.
 
 Pangngaasi a maawatam a ti pakaammo a naited ditoy ket nawaya a maiwarwaras, ken awan ti ania man a tulag wenno kontrato a naaramid baetan kenka ken dagiti akinkukua weno agus-usar iti daytoy a pagsaadan, dagiti akinkukua kadagiti servers a nakaibalayan da, ti agmaymaysa a tao a nagparawad iti Wikipedia, dagiti sinoman nga administrador ti gandat, dagiti sysop wenno sinoman nga   iti daytoy a gandat wenno dagiti kakabsat na a gandat kadagiti panagtutunton mo a panagsupiat kaniada a naidagus. Naipaayan ka ti napatinggaan a lisensia ti agkopia ti ania man manipud iti daytoy a pagsaadan; saan a maka-aramid wenno agipaltiing ti ania man a kontrato wenno mainayon a kontrato a mairebbengan a naibagi ti Wikipedia wenno annia kadigiti ahente, kam-kameng, dagiti agu-ornos wenno dagiti sabsabali nga agus-usar.
 Ti ania man kadagiti marka ti pabrika, marmarka ti serbisio, naur-urnong a marmarka ti karkarbengan dagiti daremdem wenno kapadpada na a karkarbengan a naibaga, nga nausar wenno nadakamat kadagiti artikulo iti Wikipedia nga ensiklopedia ket kabukbukodan dagiti agtagikua. Ti panagusar kadagitoy ket saan nga agibagbaga a mausar mo iti ania man a panggep ngem ti laeng kapadpada na, wenno kapada na a pannakaammo a panagusar a naimatangan babaen dagiti kasisigud a nagsurat iti dagitoy nga artikulo ti Wikipedia a naisakupan babaen ti   (CC-BY-SA) ken   (GFDL) a panag-lisensia. Malaksid no saan nga naibaga ti Wikipedia ken Wikipedia a pagsasaadan ket saan a bigbigen wenno kumadua kadagiti ania man nga agtengtengngel kadagiti karbengan ken ti Wikepedia ket saan a makaited kadagiti karbengan a mausar kadagiti nasalakniban a materiales. Ti panagusar mo kadagitoy wenno ti kapadpadana a materiales a sanikua ti kampania ket adda kaniamon a panag-peggad.
 Ti Wikipedia ket naglaon kadagiti materiales a mabalin nga agiladawan ti saan a mainaganan a tao a sibibiag wenno katkatay laeng. Ti panagusar kadagiti imahen iti sibibiag wenno katkatay a tat-tao ket, iti dadduma a naisakupan, maiparit babaen ti linteg a maipanggep kadagiti karbengan ti peronalidad, a nawayaan manipud kadagiti kaniada a karbengan a kasasaad. Sakbay nga agusar kadagitoy a kita ti linaon, pangngaasi nga addaan ka ti karbengan nga agusar babaen kadagiti linteg a maidangep ti pasamak a panggepen ti panagusar mo.  
 Ti panagipablaak iti pannakaammo a mabirukan iti Wikipedia ket mabalin a makalabsing kadagiti linteg iti pagilian wenno nakaisakupan manipud ti panag-buybuyam iti datoy a pannakaammo. Ti Wikipedia database ket naipenpen iti server idiay Estado iti   iti  , ken naitaripatuan a nai-reperensia iti panagsalaknib a naited babaen ti lokal ken federal a linteg. Dagiti linteg iti pagiliam wen naisakupan ket mabalin a saan nga agsalaknib wenno agipalubos ti kapadpadana a kita ti bitla wenno panagiwarwaras. Ti Wikipedia ket saan na a paregtaen ti agpalabsing kadagiti ania man a linteg; ken saan nga akinrebbeng ti ania man a panaglabsing ti kasta a linteg, no agsilpo ka iti daytoy a pagturayan wenno agusar, alagaden, wenno agipablaak ti pannakaammo a linaon ditoy.
 No masapul mo ti naisangayan a bagbagaan (kas pagarigan, panagagas, linteg, busbos, wenno panagtaripatu ti peggad) pangngaasi nga agbiruk ka ti propesional wenno dagiti makaammo iti dayta a disso.


URL: https://mr.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AA%E0%A5%80%E0%A4%A1%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%BE:%E0%A4%B8%E0%A4%B0%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%B8%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%A7%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%A3_%E0%A4%89%E0%A4%A4%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%A4%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%A6%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%A4%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%B8_%E0%A4%A8%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%B0

Content: 
  –   –   –   –  
 आपण मराठी     संकेतस्थळाच्या   नावाच्या सर्वसाधारण विभागात पोहोचला आहात. मराठी विकिपीडियातील कोणताही लेख किंवा पान   किंवा महाराष्ट्राबाहेरील कोणत्याही व्यक्तीचे/संस्थेचे प्रत्यक्ष किंवा अप्रत्यक्ष प्रतिनिधित्व करत नाही. कोणत्याही संस्थेची वा व्यक्तीची समस्या, तक्रार, किंवा शंका निवारण करणारे केंद्र/पान या संकेतस्थळावर -(वेब साइटवर)- उपलब्ध नाही .धन्यवाद!
 
 विकिपीडिया हा आंतरजालावरील (ऑनलाइन) मुक्तपणे मजकूर लिहिणार्‍या सहयोगी लोकांचा   (ज्ञानकोश/एनसायक्लोपीडिया) आहे.  म्हणजे  थोडक्यात, विकिपीडिया हे मानवी ज्ञानाच्या सामाईक स्रोतांवर  काम करणार्‍या स्वयंसेवी व्यक्तींचे व स्वयंसेवी गटांचे एक स्वयंस्फूर्त संघटन आहे. संगणक वापरणार्‍या व आंतरजाल जोडणी    उपलब्ध असलेल्या कुणालाही मजकुरात भर टाकता येईल किंवा त्यात बदल करता येतील अशी या प्रकल्पाची रचना आहे.  येथे लिहिलेल्या कोणत्याही गोष्टीची/माहितीची परिपूर्णता, तिचा अचूकपणा किंवा तिची विश्वासार्हता यांची संबधित विषयांतील तज्‍ज्ञ व्यक्तीकडून पडताळणी झाली असल्याची/माहितीचे समसमी़क्षण   झाले असल्याची  , हे कृपया लक्षात घ्यावे.
 याचा अर्थ असा नव्हे की, विकिपीडियात महत्त्वाची व अचूक माहिती असणारच नाही. उलट, येथे असलेली बहुतेक माहिती आपल्याला महत्त्वाची व अचूक अशीच आढळेल.
 तरीपण,   कोणत्याही लेखातील कोणताही मजकूर  खर्‍याखुर्‍या जाणकार व्यक्तीच्या मतांशी न जुळणार्‍या किंवा संबंधित क्षेत्रातील ज्ञानाच्या अद्ययावत स्थितीबद्दल  काहीच माहिती नसलेल्या व्यक्तीकडून पूर्ण अथवा अंशतः  बदललेला किंवा विध्वंसित/उत्पातित झालेला असू शकतो. येथे हे लक्षात घ्या की, इतरही बहुतेक सर्व विश्वकोशांमध्ये (एनसायक्लोपीडियाज) आणि संदर्भ ग्रंथांमध्येसुद्धा    अंतर्भूत असतात.
 आम्ही लेखांची विश्वासार्ह आवृत्ती निवडल्यानंतर तिला अपरिवर्तनीय करण्याच्या विषयात मार्ग शोधण्याच्या प्रयत्‍नात आहोत. आमचा सक्रिय संपादक समुदाय नवीन आणि बदलत्या मजकुरावर लक्ष ठेवण्यासाठी  ,   रसद   इत्यादी पूरक साधने वापरत असतो.  तरीसुद्धा, विकिपीडिया सार्वत्रिकपणे समसमिक्षीत/पडताळून झालेला नसतो; वाचक त्रुटी दूर करू शकतात किंवा  वरवरचे     करू शकतात, पण त्यांच्यावर तसे करण्याची कोणतीही अधिकृत किंवा कायद्याने बंधनकारक जबाबदारी नाही. आणि म्हणून, येथे वाचलेल्या कोणत्याही माहितीमध्ये, कोणत्याही परिस्थितीत, कोणत्याही उपयोगाकरिता किंवा कोणत्याही उद्देशाकरिता पात्रतेची हमी अंतर्भूत करता येत नाही.  अणि अगदी   सारखे (अनौपचारीक) विषयतज्ञांद्वारा मूल्यांकन  झालेले व मान्यता दिलेले लेखही    नंतरच्या काळात,  तुम्ही पहाण्याच्या अगदी अगोदर, (अगदी अपात्र व्यक्तींकडूनही), अयोग्य पद्धतीने संपादित केले गेलेले असू शकतात.
 
 येथे उपलब्ध केलेली/झालेली माहिती   स्वरूपात उपलब्ध केली जाते, हे आपणास समजले असल्याची कृपा करून खात्री करून घ्या. तुम्ही आणि या संस्थळाचे (site) मालक अथवा या संकेतस्थळाचे उपयोगकर्ते यांचा आपापसात कोणताही करार अथवा समझोता उद्भवत नाही. हे संस्थळ स्थापित असलेल्या विदादात्यांचे मालक (owners of the servers), व्यक्तिगत विकिपीडिया योगदानकर्ते,  प्रकल्प-प्रचालक(प्रबंधक), प्रचालक किंवा   या प्रकल्पाशी किंवा त्याच्या सहप्रकल्पांशी   इतर जण, यांतला कोणीही त्यांच्या विरोधातील तुमच्या कोणत्याही दाव्यास प्रत्यक्ष जबाबदार (जिम्मेवार) असणार नाही.
 तुम्हाला या संकेतस्थळावरून काहीही नकलवण्याचा  परवाना केवळ   आहे; त्यामुळे, विकिपीडियाबरोबर अथवा त्याच्या कोणत्याही प्रतिनिधी, सदस्य, संयोजक किंवा इतर सदस्याबरोबर कोणताही प्रत्यक्ष किंवा अप्रत्यक्ष करार करणे किंवा त्यांच्याकडून करारांतर्गत अथवा करारेतर  कायदेशीर दायित्व (जबाबदारी) घेणे संभवत नाही. दायित्व (जबाबदारी) निर्मिती करेल असा कोणताही करार कोणत्याही प्रकारे स्वीकारार्ह असणार नाही.  
 
 
तुमच्या या संकेतस्थळाच्या अथवा सहप्रकल्पांच्या उपयोगाच्या, किंवा माहितीतील बदलांच्या संदर्भाने   (CC-BY-SA) आणि the   (GFDL)च्या परिघापलीकडे  "तुमच्यात आणि विकिपीडियात कोणताही समझोता अथवा करार नाही";  प्रकल्पावर तुम्ही चढवलेली कोणतीही माहिती/मजकूर दुसर्‍या कुणीही पूर्णपणे अथवा अंशतः संपादित करून तिच्यात बदल केल्यास, अगर काही किंवा संपूर्ण माहिती वगळल्यास; विकिपीडिया किंवा संबंधित दुसरे कुणीही त्याला जबाबदार असणार नाहीत.
 विकिपीडिया विश्वकोश (एनसायक्लोपीडिया)च्या पानातून /लेखातून नमूद केलेली, वापरलेली (used) किंवा संदर्भ दिलेली कोणतीही व्यापार चिन्हे, सेवा चिन्हे (service marks), collective marks, design rights हे, त्यांच्या संबंधित मालकांची संपत्ती आहेत. त्यांचा (इतरांच्या संपत्तीचा), या विकिपीडियातील लेखातील मूळ लेखकास असलेल्या CC-BY-SA आणि GFDL ने अभिप्रेत अशा परवान्याअतंर्गत, समान माहितीच्या पलीकडे तुम्ही उपयोग करू शकता, असा त्याचा अर्थ होत नाही (म्हणजे उपयोग करू शकत नाही).
 तसे स्पष्ट अधिकृतपणे नमूद नसल्यास, विकिपीडिया आणि Wikimedia सारखी संकेतस्थळे  अशा कोणत्याही मालकी हक्कदारांनी दुजोरा दिलेली   endorsed अथवा त्यांच्याशी जोडली गेलेली affiliated नाहीत, असेच अपेक्षित आहे. आणि अर्थातच त्यामुळे, विकिपीडिया अन्यथा otherwise  सुरक्षित अशी साधनसामग्री materials वापरण्यास कोणतीही परवानगी देऊ शकत नाही/देत नाही.  अथवा अशा प्रकारच्या कोणत्याही अमूर्त सामग्रीचा incorporeal property   केलेला कोणताही उपयोग सर्वस्वी तुमच्या स्वतःच्या जबाबदारीवर असेल.
 जीवित अथवा अलीकडेच मृत झालेल्या, आणि नावावरून सहज ओळख पटेल अशा व्यक्तींची माहिती विकिपीडियात प्रकाशित झालेली असू शकते. अशा व्यक्तीचे चित्र किंवा छायाचित्र त्या व्यक्तीच्या किंवा तिच्या वारसाच्या/परिवारातल्या व्यक्तीच्या नकळत किंवा तिच्या/त्यांच्या परवानगीशिवाय वापरणे रूढ संकेताचा भंग करणारे असू शकते. काही देशातील काही कायद्यांनुसार, जीवित अथवा हल्लीहल्ली मृत झालेल्या व्यक्तीच्या चित्रांचा/छायाचित्रांचा   क्षेत्रात मोडणारा वापर प्रतिबंधित केलेला असू शकतो;  हे प्रतिबंधन प्रताधिकारांशिवायचे असण्याची शक्यता आहे. त्यामुळे,    इतरांच्या व्यक्तिस्वातंत्र्याचा संकोच न करण्याची जबाबदारी केवळ तुमची स्वतःची आहे.
 विकिपीडिया contains मजकुर which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or deceased recently.  The use of images of living or recently deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, कृपया ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.   
 ज्या देशातून तुम्ही माहिती पहात आहात त्या देशातील कायद्यानुसार, विकिपीडियात प्रकाशित झालेली एखादी माहिती पाहणे बेकायदेशीर किंवा तिथल्या प्रचलित नियमांचे उल्लंघन करणारे असण्याची शक्यता आहे.  विकिपीडियातील विदा (database)   अमेरिकेमधील   राज्य येथील विदादाता (server) वर संग्रहित केला जातो.  आणि तेथील स्थानिक आणि संघीय कायद्यातील सुरक्षा तरतुदींनुसार सुचालित (maintaine) केली जाते . तुमच्या देशातील कायदे  अशा पद्धतीच्या बोलण्यास, लिहिण्यास वा  मांडणी वितरणास मान्यता अथवा संरक्षण देत असेलच असे नाही. विकिपीडिया कोणत्याही कायद्याच्या उल्लंघनास उत्तेजन देत नाही; आणि म्हणून जर तुम्ही या संकेतस्थळाचा (domain)  दुवा दिलात, येथील उपलब्ध माहिती वापरली , पुनःप्रसारित किंवा पुनःप्रकाशित केली, आणि असे करताना नियमभंग झाला, तर अशा कोणत्याही रीतीने कायद्याच्या किंवा नियमाच्या उल्लंघनास विकिपीडिया किंवा विकिमिडिया जबाबदार नाही..
 जर तुम्हाला वैद्यकीय, कायदा, आर्थिक किंवा जोखीम व्यवस्थापन किंवा अशाच एखाद्या विशिष्ट क्षेत्रातील सल्ल्याची गरज असेल तर असा सल्ला आपण कृपया, परवानाधारक किंवा त्या क्षेत्रातील ज्ञानवंत असेल अशा व्यक्तीकडूनच मिळवावा. विकिपीडिया ही संस्था, असा व्यावसायिक सल्ला देत नाही.
 हे disclaimer इंग्रजी विकिपीडियावरून भाषांतरित केले आहे. जिथे शंका असेल तिथे, मूळ इंग्रजी विकिपीडियातील इंग्रजी उतारा तपासून घ्यावा. या लेखातील तसेच मराठी विकिपीडिया किंवा तिच्या मराठी भाषेतील सहप्रकल्पातील भाषांतराच्या अचूकतेची कोणतीही जबाबदारी मराठी विकिपीडिया किंवा इथे कार्यरत संपादक घेत नाहीत. कायदेशीर वा कोर्ट कार्यवाहीसाठी, वा भाषांतराचा वाद उद्भवल्यास, इंगजी विकिपीडियावरचे disclaimer हे ग्राह्य धरण्यात यावे.   
 खाली केवळ या लेखाच्या संदर्भात लागू पडणार्‍या उपयुक्त तांत्रिक शब्दांचे सामान्य अर्थ दिले आहेत. या लेखास कायदा विषयातील जाणकार व्यक्तीच्या साहाय्याची आवश्यकता आहे. 


URL: https://mt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedija:%C4%8Aa%C4%A7da_%C4%A1enerali

Content: 
 Il-Wikipedija hija enċiklopedija kollaborativa b'kontenut ħieles, li tfisser, assoċjazzjoni volontarja ta' individwi u gruppijiet li jaħdmu flimkien sabiex jibnu proġett ta' għerf komuni. L-istruttura tal-proġett tippermetti li kwalunkwe persuna li għandu aċċess għall-internet sabiex ikun jista' jagħmel modifiki fil-kontenut. Jekk jogħġbok għaraf il-fatt li l-kontenut li jinstab hawnhekk kien neċessarjament revedut minn persuna esperta sabiex jingħata informazzjoni kompleta, preċiża u li tista' torbot fuqu.
 Dan ma jfissirx però li mintix se ssib informazzjoni preċiża u ta' valur kbir fil-Wikipedija; ħafna drabi għandek issib. Minkejja dan,   Il-kontenut ta' artiklu jista' jiġi riċentament ġie modifikat, vandalizzat jew modifikat minn persuna li huwa ta' opinjoni differenti f'dak il-qasam.
 Qegħdin naħdmu fuq mezzi sabiex nagħżlu u nimmarkaw verżjonijiet li wieħed jista' jorbot fuqhom. Il-komunità attiva ta' edituri jagħmlu użu minn għodda bħat-  u tal-  sabiex ikunu jistgħu jaraw kontenut ġdid jew modifiki li qegħdin isiru. Madankollu, il-Wikipedija ma tiġix reveduta bl-istess mod jiġifieri, waqt li qarrejja jistgħu jikkoreġu żbalji jew jieħdu sehem f' , huma m'għandhom l-ebda rabta legali u għalhekk kull informazzjoni li jinqara hawnhekk huwa implikat bla pleġġ għal kull raġuni. Anke artikli li jiġu kkorreġuti minn reviżjoni informali mill-komunità jew dawk li jkunu   jistgħu aktar tard jiġu modifikati bla rażan, qabel ma tarahom.  
 
 Kun żgur li tifhem li l-informazzjoni pprovduta hawnhekk qiegħda tiġi provduta b'xejn, u li l-ebda tip ta' qbil jew kuntratt jinħoloq bejnek u bejn is-sidien jew l-utenti ta' dan is-sit, is-sidien tas-servers fejn din tinsab, il-kontributuri individwali tal-Wikipedija, l-amministraturi ta' kwalunkwe proġett, jew xi ħadd ieħor li b'xi mod jew ieħor   ma' dan il-proġett jew proġetti relatati li huma suġġetti għad-domandi tiegħek lejhom. Inti qiegħed tingħata liċenzja limitata li tikkopja li trid minn fuq dan is-sit; min-naħa tal-Wikipedija din ma toħloqx jew timplika ebda responsabbilità kuntrattwali jew ekstra-kuntrattwali jew kwalunkwe mill-aġenti tagħha, il-membri, l-organizzaturi jew utenti oħra.
 Inti qiegħed tingħata liċensja limitata sabiex tikkopja xi affarijiet minn dan is-sit; minn naħa tal-wikipedija ma toħloqx l-ebda dejn jew qbil formali jew kwalunkwe tal-aġenti tagħha, membri, organiżaturi jew utenti oħrajn. 
 M'hemm   rigward l-użu jew modifikar ta' din l-informazzjoni li huwa 'l fuq mill-iskop tal-  (GFDL); lanqas xi ħadd mill-Wikipedija m'huwa responsabbli jekk xi ħadd ibiddel, jimmodifika jew ineħħi xi informazzjoni li int tissottometti fuq il-Wikipedija jew proġett assoċjat.  
 Kwalunkwe trejdmarks, marki tas-servizzi, marki kollettivi, drittijiet tad-disinn jew drittijiet simili li huma msemmija, użati jew kwotati fl-artikli tal-enċiklopedija tal-Wikipedija huma propjetà tas-sidien rispettivi. L-użu tagħhom hawnhekk ma timplikax li inti tista' tużahom għal xi raġunijiet oħra minbarra dak ta' l-istess użu ta' informazzjoni jew wieħed simili kif kontemplat mill-awturi oriġinali tal-artikli tal-Wikipedija taħt l-iskema ta' liċenzjar tal-GFDL. Sakemm mhux iddikjarat b'mod ieħor, il-Wikipedija u s-siti tal-Wikimedia m'huma la approvaturi u lanqas affiljati mal-ebda mis-sidiein tat-tali drittijiet u persè l-Wikipedija ma tistax tagħti drittijiet biex tuża' materjal li huwa protett. Huwa riskju tiegħek jekk tuża din il-proprjetà inkorporali jew waħda simili.
 Il-Wikipedija għandha materjal li jista' juri persuna identifikament ħajja jew persuna li mietet riċentament. L-użu ta' stampi ta' individwi ħajjin jew li għadhom kif imutu riċentament, f'ċerti kazijiet, huwa ristretti bil-liġi minħabba d-  tagħhom, li huma independenti mill-istatus tagħhom ta' copyright. Qabel ma tuża' dan it-tip ta' kontenut, aċċerta ruħek li għandek id-dritt li tużah taħt il-liġijiet li japplikaw fiċ-ċirkustanzi involuti.  
 Pubblikazzjoni ta' informazzjoni li tinsab fil-Wikipedija tista' tkun qed tivvjola l-liġijiet tal-pajjiż jew ġurisdizzjoni minn fejn qiegħda tintwera din l-informazzjoni. Id-databażi tal-Wikipedija hija maqfula f'server fl-Istat ta'   fl- , u hija mantenuta b'referenza għall-protezzjonijiet tal-mezzi pprovduti taħt il-liġijiet legali u federali. Il-liġijiet fil-pajjiż jew il-ġurisdizzjoni tiegħek jistgħu lanqas jipproteġuk jew jħalluk l-istess tip ta' taħdit u distribuzzjoni. Il-Wikipedija ma tagħtix parir li tikser xi liġijiet, u ma tistax tkun responsabbli minn dawn l-atti, jekk inti se tabbina ma' dan id-dominju jew tuża, tirriproduċi, jew terġa' tippubblika l-informazzjoni li hawn hawnhekk. 
 Jekk trid parir speċifiku (eżempju, dak mediku, legali, finanzjarju, jew l-immaniġjar tar-riskji) fittex nies professjonali li huma liċenzjati jew għandhom il-ħila f'dak il-qasam partikulari.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:General_disclaimer&action=info

Content: This page is a member of 1 hidden category :
 


URL: https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:%E5%85%8D%E8%B4%A3%E5%A3%B0%E6%98%8E

Content: 是内容开放的在线的百科全书，它是由个人和团体志愿合作开发的人类知识的共有资源。这个计划的体系允许任何人通过网络连接修改其内容。因此，请注意您在这里找到的内容，并不一定由任何相关领域的专家和专业人员审查过，因此维基百科也无法保证给你提供完善、正确、可靠的信息。
 这并不是说您在维基百科上找不到有价值的和正确的信息，但是请注意 。任何特定条目的内容都可能在最近已经被修改、破坏或被对相关领域认知状况不一致的人变更。请注意，大多数其他百科全书和参考作品也有 。
 我们社群中活跃的编者会使用 和 工具来监视新的和更改的内容。然而，维基百科并无普遍受到同行评审；虽然读者可以修改错误或者参与到非正式的 中，但他们没有法律义务这样做，因此您在这里获取的所有信息都不对针对特定目的或一般使用的适用性提供任何暗示的保证。即使已经由同行评审通过的或经过 评选过程的文章，依然可能在您浏览前刚刚被修改过。
 
 请确认您了解到，您从这里所获得的信息都是自由、免费的，而且您没有与任何人有契约或合同关系，无论是本站的使用者、所有者、服务器提供商、任何维基百科参与者个人、管理员，还是其他任何与本计划及相关计划有直接或间接关系的个人或团体。在一个有限许可之下，您可以从本站复制任何内容，但这并不意味着维基百科或它的代理人、成员、组织者或其他用户对其承担任何契约性的或契约以外的责任。
 在 协议（CC-BY-SA）及 （GFDL）之外， 没有协议与使用和修改这些信息有关联；维基百科上也没有任何人应对修改、编辑或移除你张贴在维基百科或其相关计划的任何信息负责。
 维基百科条目中使用或提及的任何商标（包括服务商标、集体商标），或是设计权以及提及的其他权利，都属于其对应所有者的财产。维基百科条目的原作者在此根据CC-BY-SA和GFDL许可方案使用这些商标，但这并不意味着您也可以为相同或类似目的使用。除非另有说明，否则维基百科或维基媒体基金会不会与任何此类权利的所有人存在关联，所以也无法授权您使用任何受到保护的内容。您在使用任何此类或类似无形财产时需要自担风险。
 维基百科包含可确认身份的在世或最近过世的人的传记。在某些司法管辖区，有关 的法律限制生者或最近去世的人的图像的使用，并独立于这些图像的著作权状态。在使用这些类型的内容之前，请确保与你的使用意图相关的法律授予你使用该内容的权利。 
 请注意将您在这里所找到的信息发布出去有可能会违反您所在国家或司法管辖区的法律。维基百科的数据库都是储存在位于美国的服务器中，因而任何内容都受到当地法律和美国联邦法律的保护。您所在国家或司法管辖区的法律有可能没有对相同种类的言论和发行进行保护。维基百科并不鼓励任何人触犯法律，因此如果您链接到此域名或使用、复制或转载本站包含的信息，维基百科无法为可能带来的违反此类法律的行为负责。
 如果您需要具体的建议（例如在医学、法律和风险管理方面），请咨询一名注册或在该领域有能力的专业人士。


URL: https://ml.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B4%B5%E0%B4%BF%E0%B4%95%E0%B5%8D%E0%B4%95%E0%B4%BF%E0%B4%AA%E0%B5%80%E0%B4%A1%E0%B4%BF%E0%B4%AF:%E0%B4%AA%E0%B5%8A%E0%B4%A4%E0%B5%81%E0%B4%A8%E0%B4%BF%E0%B4%B0%E0%B4%BE%E0%B4%95%E0%B4%B0%E0%B4%A3%E0%B4%82

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content.  Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
 സ്വതന്ത്ര ഉള്ളടക്കങ്ങളുള്ളതും, ഓൺലൈനിൽ ‍സംയുക്തമായി രചിക്കപ്പെടുന്നതുമായ ഒരു വിജ്ഞാനകോശമാണ് വിക്കിപീഡിയ. അതായത്, മനുഷ്യവിജ്ഞാനത്തിന് ഒരു പൊതുഭണ്ഡാരം സൃഷ്ടിക്കുക എന്ന ഉദ്ദേശത്തോടെ യോജിച്ചു പ്രവർത്തിക്കുന്ന വ്യക്തികളടങ്ങുന്ന സന്നദ്ധസംഘടനയുടെയും കൂട്ടായ്മയുടെയും (പരിശ്രമഫലം)  ആണെന്നർത്ഥം. ഈ സംരംഭത്തിന്റെ ഘടന, ഇന്റർനെറ്റ് സൗകര്യമുള്ള ആർക്കും ഉള്ളടക്കം മാറ്റുന്നതിന് അനുവാദം നൽകുന്നുണ്ട്. (അതുകൊണ്ട്,) ഇവിടെ കാണുന്ന യാതൊന്നും തന്നെ, താങ്കൾക്ക് കൃത്യവും, പൂർണ്ണവും, വിശ്വസനീയവുമായ വിവരങ്ങൾ പ്രദാനം ചെയ്യുന്നവിധം വിദഗ്ദ്ധരായവർ സംശോധന നടത്തിയിട്ടുണ്ടാവണമെന്നില്ല.  
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.  However,    The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.  Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works  .
 എന്നാൽ, ഇവിടെ നിന്ന് നിങ്ങൾക്ക് വിലപ്പെട്ടതും സൂക്ഷമവുമായ വിവരങ്ങൾ ലഭിക്കുകയില്ല എന്ന് അതിനർത്ഥമില്ല; മറിച്ച്, മിക്കസമയവും അതു ലഭിക്കുക തന്നെ ചെയ്യും. എന്നാൽ,  . (ഇവിടുത്തെ) ഏതൊരു കൃതിയും, അതാതു വിജ്ഞാനശാഖകളിൽ നിലവിലുള്ള അറിവുമായി പൊരുത്തപ്പെടുന്നില്ലെന്ന് കരുതുന്ന ഒരാൾ, തൊട്ടുമുൻപ് തിരുത്തുകയോ, മാറ്റുകയോ അല്ലെങ്കിൽ വികൃതമാക്കുകയോ ചെയ്തിട്ടുണ്ടാവാം.  ഇതേ രീതിയിലുള്ള സാധുതാനിരാകരണപ്രസ്താവനകൾ മറ്റു വിജ്ഞാനകോശങ്ങളിലും അവലംബഗ്രന്ഥങ്ങളിലും ചേർക്കുന്നുണ്ടെന്നുകൂടി ശ്രദ്ധിക്കുമല്ലോ.
 
 We are working on ways to select and highlight reliable versions of articles.  Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content.  However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever.  Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 ലേഖനങ്ങളുടെ ഏറ്റവും മെച്ചപ്പെട്ട പതിപ്പുകൾ ഉണ്ടാക്കുവാനും പ്രസിദ്ധീകരിക്കുവാനും ഞങ്ങൾ ശ്രമിച്ചുവരികയാണ്. ഞങ്ങളുടെ സജീവ സംശോധകസമൂഹം,  ,   തുടങ്ങിയ ഉപാധികൾ ഉപയോഗിച്ച്, പുതിയതും മാറ്റപ്പെടുന്നതുമായ ലേഖനങ്ങൾ സദാ നിരീക്ഷിച്ചു വരുന്നുണ്ട്. എന്നാൽ, വിക്കിപീഡിയ (ലേഖനങ്ങളെല്ലാം) ഒരേപോലെ സംശോധന ചെയ്തിട്ടുള്ളവയല്ല.  ലേഖനങ്ങളിലെ പിശകുകൾ തിരുത്തുകയോ, ഇടയ്ക്ക് വായനക്കാർ   ചെയ്യുമെങ്കിലും , അപ്രകാരം ചെയ്യാൻ അവർക്ക് നിയമബാദ്ധ്യതയൊന്നും ഇല്ല; അതിനാൽ, ഇവിടെ വായിക്കാവുന്ന ലേഖനങ്ങൾക്കൊന്നും, ഏതെങ്കിലും ഉപയോഗത്തിനോ, ലക്ഷ്യത്തിനോ യോജിക്കുന്നതാണെന്ന് അപ്രകടിതമായ ഉറപ്പ് ഒന്നും തന്നെ  വാഗ്ദാനം ചെയ്യുന്നില്ല. കൂടാതെ അനൗപചാരികമായി പരിശോധിച്ച് അംഗീകരിച്ച ലേഖനങ്ങളോ   ലേഖനങ്ങൾ ‍പോലുമോ പിന്നീട്,  താങ്കൾ കാണുന്നതിനു തൊട്ടു മുൻപായി, യോജിക്കാത്ത വിധം മാറ്റിയിട്ടുണ്ടാവാം.
 
 
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 ഇവിടെയുള്ള  വിവരങ്ങൾ സൗജന്യമായി നൽകിയിരിക്കുന്നവയാണെന്നും, താങ്കളും, ഈ സൈറ്റിന്റെ ഉടമകളും, ഉപയോക്താക്കളും, ഇതു സൂക്ഷിച്ചിരിക്കുന്ന സെർവറിന്റെ ഉടമകളും, ദാതാക്കളായ വ്യക്തികളും, പദ്ധതിഭരണകർത്താക്കളും, സിസോപ്പുകളും അല്ലെങ്കിൽ ഈ പദ്ധതിയുമായോ, സഹസംരംഭങ്ങളുമായോ   തമ്മിൽ ഏതെങ്കിലും തരത്തിലുള്ള കരാറോ, സമ്മതമോ, ഉണ്ടാക്കിയിട്ടില്ലെന്നും താങ്കളുടെ കഷ്ടനഷ്ടാവകാശങ്ങൾക്ക് നേരിട്ട് ഉത്തരവാദികളോ ആവുന്നില്ലെന്നും താങ്കൾ ശരിയായി മനസ്സിലാക്കുന്നുവെന്ന് ഉറപ്പാക്കണം. താങ്കൾക്ക്, ഈ സൈറ്റിൽ നിന്ന് പകർപ്പെടുക്കുവാനുള്ള പരിമിതാനുമതി മാത്രമേ നൽകുന്നുള്ളൂ, അത്, വിക്കിപീഡിയക്കോ, അതിന്റെ പ്രതിനിധികൾക്കോ, അംഗങ്ങൾക്കോ, സംഘാടകർക്കോ മറ്റുപയോക്താക്കൾക്കോ ഏതെങ്കിലും തരത്തിൽ കരാർ പ്രകാരമോ കരാറിനപ്പുറത്തോ ഉള്ള ബാദ്ധ്യത സൃഷ്ടിക്കുന്നില്ല.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC-BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 ക്രിയേറ്റീവ് കോമൺസ് ആട്രിബ്യൂഷൻ ഷെയർ-എലൈക് 3.0 അൺപോർട്ടെഡ് ലൈസൻസ്  (  (CC-BY-SA)),  (    എന്നിവയ്ക്കുപരി, ഇവിടെയുള്ള വിവരങ്ങൾ താങ്കൾ ഉപയോഗിക്കുന്നതോ, പരിഷ്കരിക്കുന്നതോ സംബന്ധിച്ച്,  ; കൂടാതെ, താങ്കൾ വിക്കിപീഡിയയിലോ അതിന്റെ മറ്റു സഹസംരംഭങ്ങളിലോ ചേർക്കുന്ന എതെങ്കിലും വിവരം മറ്റാളുകൾ മാറ്റുന്നതിലോ, തിരുത്തുന്നതിലോ, പരിഷ്കരിക്കുന്നതിലോ, വിക്കിപീഡിയയിലെ ആർക്കും ഉത്തരവാദിത്തം ഉണ്ടായിരിയ്ക്കുന്നതുമല്ല.
 
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 വിക്കിപീഡിയയിലെ ലേഖനങ്ങളിൽ പ്രതിപാദിച്ചിരിക്കുന്നതോ ഉപയോഗിച്ചിരിക്കുനതോ അല്ലെങ്കിൽ സൂചിപ്പിച്ചിരിക്കുന്നതോ ആയ വാണിജ്യചിഹ്നങ്ങൾ, സേവനചിഹ്നങ്ങൾ  , സംഘടനാചിഹ്നങ്ങൾ  ‍, രൂപകല്പനാവകാശങ്ങൾ, വ്യക്തിഗത അവകാശങ്ങൾ അല്ലെങ്കിൽ സമാനമായ അവകാശങ്ങൾ തുടങ്ങിയവ അതാത് ഉടമകളുടെ സ്വന്തമാണ്. അവ ഇവിടെ ഉപയോഗിച്ചിരിക്കുന്നതുകൊണ്ട്, താങ്കൾക്ക് അത്, CC-BY-SA, ഗ്നൂ  എന്നീ അനുമതി സമ്പ്രദായങ്ങൾക്കു കീഴിൽ എഴുതിയ വിക്കിപീഡിയ ലേഖനത്തിന്റെ ലേഖകർ ഉദ്ദേശിച്ച അതേ അനൗപചാരിക ഉപയോഗത്തിനോ, സമാന ഉപയോഗത്തിനോ അല്ലാതെ മറ്റുകാര്യങ്ങൾക്ക് ഉപയോഗിക്കാമെന്ന്  അർത്ഥമില്ല. മറിച്ച് എവിടെയെങ്കിലും പറഞ്ഞിട്ടില്ലെങ്കിൽ, വിക്കിപീഡിയ, വിക്കിമീഡിയ സൈറ്റുകൾക്ക് അത്തരം അവകാശികളുമായി ധാരണയോ ബന്ധങ്ങളോ ഇല്ല; അതുകൊണ്ട്, ഏതെങ്കിലും തരത്തിൽ പകർപ്പവകാശസംരക്ഷണമുള്ള കാര്യങ്ങളുടെ അവകാശം കൈമാറാൻ കഴിയില്ല. അത്തരം ഏതെങ്കിലും അമൂർത്ത വസ്തുക്കളോ സമാനസംജ്ഞകളോ താങ്കൾ ഉപയോഗിക്കുന്നത്, താങ്കളുടെ സ്വന്തം ഉത്തരവാദിത്തത്തിലായിരിക്കും.
 
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce or republish the information contained herein.
 വിക്കിപീഡിയയിൽ കാണുന്ന വിവരങ്ങൾ പ്രസിദ്ധീകരിക്കുന്നത് താങ്കൾ ഈ വിവരങ്ങൾ നോക്കുന്ന സ്ഥലത്തെ അല്ലെങ്കിൽ നിയമമേഖലയിലെ  നിയമമോ ലംഘിക്കുന്നത് ആയിരിക്കാം. വിക്കിപ്പിഡിയയിലെ വിവരസമാഹാരം സൂക്ഷിച്ചിരിക്കുന്നത്,   സ്ഥാപിച്ചിരിക്കുന്ന സേർവറുകളിലാണ്, അത് അന്നാട്ടിലെ  തദ്ദേശ-കേന്ദ്ര ഭരണകൂടനിയമങ്ങൾ അനുസരിച്ചു സൂക്ഷിക്കപ്പെട്ടിട്ടുള്ളവയാണ്.  താങ്കളുടെ രാജ്യത്തെയോ  നിയമമേഖലയിലെ‍യോ നിയമങ്ങൾ, സമാനമായ  അഭിപ്രായപ്രകടനമോ വിതരണസ്വാതന്ത്ര്യമോ അനുവദിക്കുന്നില്ലെന്നു വരാം. വിക്കിപീഡിയ, യാതൊരു തരത്തിലും നിയമലംഘനം പ്രോത്സാഹിപ്പിക്കുന്നില്ല; മാത്രവുമല്ല, താങ്കൾ, ഈ സൈറ്റിലേക്കു കണ്ണി നൽകുകയോ, ഉപയോഗിക്കുകയോ, പുനർനിർമ്മിക്കുകയോ, ഇവിടെയുള്ള വിവരങ്ങൾ പുനഃപ്രസിദ്ധീകരിക്കുകയോ ചെയ്യുമ്പോൾ സംഭവിക്കുന്ന അത്തരം നിയമലംഘനങ്ങൾക്ക് വിക്കിപീഡിയ ഉത്തരവാദിയായിരിക്കുന്നതുമല്ല.
 
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.
 താങ്കൾക്ക് ഏതെങ്കിലും കാര്യത്തിൽ ഉപദേശങ്ങൾ ആവശ്യമുണ്ടെങ്കിൽ‍ (ഉദാഹരണത്തിന്, വൈദ്യോപദേശമോ, നിയമോപദേശമോ, സാമ്പത്തികോപദേശമോ അല്ലെങ്കിൽ നഷ്ടസാദ്ധ്യതാ ഉപദേശമോ), ദയവായി (അപ്രകാരം ഉപദേശങ്ങൾ നൽകുവാൻ) നിയമപരമായ അധികാരമുള്ളവരേയോ, അതാതു രംഗത്തെ വിദഗ്ദ്ധരേയോ, സമീപിക്കണം.


URL: https://hi.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AA%E0%A5%80%E0%A4%A1%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%BE:%E0%A4%B8%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%A7%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%A3_%E0%A4%85%E0%A4%B8%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B5%E0%A5%80%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%A3

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 
 विकिपीडिया एक वेब आधारित सहयोग-प्राप्त ज्ञानकोश है, अर्थात्, यह मानव ज्ञान का आम संसाधन विकसित करने के लिए व्यक्तियों तथा समूहों का एक स्वैच्छिक संगठन है। इस परियोजना की संरचना अंतर्जाल संयोजन के साथ किसी भी व्यक्ति को इसकी सामग्री परिवर्तित करने की अनुमति देता है। कृपया यह ध्यान रखें कि यह आवश्यक नहीं है कि यहाँ पाई गई सामग्री की विशेषज्ञों द्वारा सही तथा विश्वसनीय जानकारी देने के लिए समीक्षा की गई हो।
 इसका यह तात्पर्य नहीं है कि आपको विकिपीडिया पर मूल्यवान तथा सही जानकारी नहीं मिलेगी; अधिकांशतः यह सही ही होगी। हालांकि,   किसी भी लेख की सामग्री को हटाया जा सकता है, उत्पात का शिकार हो सकती है अथवा ऐसे व्यक्ति द्वारा बदली जा सकती है जो उस संगत क्षेत्र में ज्ञान की अवस्था से भिन्न विचार रखता हो। ध्यान दें कि अधिकतर अन्य विकिपीडिया तथा सन्दर्भ कार्यों में भी   होते हैं।
 हम लेखों के विश्वसनीय संस्करण चुनने तथा हाइलाइट करने के तरीकों पर कार्य कर रहे हैं। हमारा सम्पादकों का सक्रिय समुदाय नयी तथा बदलती सामग्री पर निगाह रखने के लिये   तथा   फीड जैसे औजारों का प्रयोग करता है। हालाँकि विकिपीडिया की समीक्षा समान रूप से नहीं की जाती; यद्यपि पाठक गलतियों को सुधार सकते हैं तथा कैजुअल   में शामिल हो सकते हैं तथापि उन्हें ऐसा करने का कोई कानूनी कर्तव्य नहीं है तथा इस प्रकार यहाँ पढ़ी गयी सारी जानकारी किसी उद्देश्य या किसी प्रयोग के लिये बिना किसी क्रियान्वित फिटनेस वारण्टी के है। यहाँ तक कि जो लेख अनौपचारिक पीयर समीक्षा अथवा   प्रक्रिया से गुजरे है बाद में इससे पहले कि आप उन्हें देखें हो सकता है कि वो अनुपयुक्त रूप से सम्पादित किये गये हों।
 
 कृपया यह सुनिश्चित कर लें कि यहाँ उपलब्ध की गयी जानकारी मुक्त रूप से उपलब्ध कराई जा रही है तथा आपके एवं इस साइट के मालिकों या सदस्यों, सर्वर के मालिकों, एकल विकिपीडिया योगदानकर्ता, कोई परियोजना प्रबन्धक, सिस्टम ऑपरेटर या कोई अन्य जो इस परियोजना या इसकी किसी बन्धु परियोजना से   के मध्य आपके किसी प्रकार के दावे हेतु किसी प्रकार का ऍग्रीमेण्ट या अनुबन्ध नहीं हो रहा। आपको इस साइट से कोई सामग्री कॉपी करने हेतु एक सीमित लाइसेंस दिया जा रहा है; यह विकिपीडिया की तरफ से या इसके किसी एजेण्ट, सदस्य किसी अनुबन्धित या अतिरिक्त अनुबन्धित दायित्व को बनाता या क्रियान्वित नहीं करता।
  विकिपीडिया के   (CC-BY-SA) तथा   (GFDL) के अन्तर्गत ही है। इसके अतिरिक्त विकिपीडिया से जुड़ा कोई भी व्यक्ति किसी सामग्री में किसी के द्वारा परिवर्तन, सम्पादन, संशोधन तथा निकाले जाने हेतु जिम्मेदार नहीं होगा।
 कोई भी ट्रेडमार्क, सर्विस मार्क, साँझे/संयुक्त मार्क, डिजाइन अधिकार अथवा इसी प्रकार के अधिकार जो कि विकिपीडिया के लेखों में व्यवस्थित किये जाते हैं, प्रयोग किये जाते हैं अथवा उद्धृत किये जाते हैं वे उनके क्रमशः मालिकों की मिल्कियत हैं। उनके यहाँ प्रयोग का अर्थ यह नहीं है कि आप उनका समान अथवा समान जानकारीपूर्ण प्रयोग के अतिरिक्त अन्य कार्यों हेतु प्रयोग कर सकें जैसा कि इन विकिपीडिया लेखों के मूल लेखकों के द्वारा CC-BY-SA तथा GFDL लाइसेंस स्कीमों में वर्णित है। जब तक अन्यथा न कहा जाय विकिपीडिया तथा विकिमीडिया साइटें न तो इन अधिकारों के मालिकों से किसी प्रकार सम्बद्ध हैं और न ही समर्थित हैं अतः विकिपीडिया किसी अन्य रूप से सुरक्षित सामग्री के प्रयोग हेतु अधिकार प्रदान नहीं कर सकता। आपके द्वारा इस प्रकार या   का उपयोग आपके अपनी जिम्मेदारी पर है।
 विकिपीडिया में ऐसी सामग्री है जिसमें एक पहचान योग्य व्यक्ति को चित्रित किया गया हो जो जीवित या हाल ही में मर चुका हो। जीवित या हालिया मृत व्यक्ति के चित्रों का उपयोग कुछ अधिकार-क्षेत्रों में कॉपीराइट स्थिति के अलावा व्यक्तिगत अधिकारों से सम्बद्ध कानूनों द्वारा प्रतिबन्धित है। इस प्रकार की सामग्री के उपयोग से पहले कृपया यह सुनिश्चित कर लें कि आपको आपके आशयित प्रयोग से सम्बद्ध क्षेत्र में कानूनन इनके प्रयोग का अधिकार हो।  
 विकिपीडिया पर उपलब्ध सामग्री का प्रकाशन आप जिस देश में यह जानकारी देख रहे हैं, उस देश या क्षेत्र के कानून का उल्लंघन हो सकती है। विकिपीडिया डाटाबेस   के   प्रान्त के एक सर्वर में संगृहीत है तथा इसका प्रबन्धन/व्यवस्थापन स्थानीय तथा संघीय कानून में प्रदत्त सुरक्षा सन्दर्भानुसार होता है। आपके देश के कानून इस प्रकार के वक्तत्व्य या वितरण की सुरक्षा या अनुमति शायद न दे सकें। विकिपीडिया किसी कानून के उल्लंघन को प्रोत्साहित नहीं करता तथा इस प्रकार के किसी कानून के उल्लंघन हेतु जिम्मेदार नहीं ठहराया जा सकता चाहे आप इस डोमेन को लिंक कर रहे हों, यहाँ उपलब्ध सामग्री को प्रयोग कर रहे हों, पुनर्निर्मित अथवा पुनर्प्रकाशित कर रहे हों।
 यदि आपको विशिष्ट सलाह (उदाहरण के लिये, चिकित्सकीय, कानूनी, वित्तीय अथवा रिस्क प्रबन्धन आदि) चाहिये तो कृपया किसी व्यावसायिक विशेषज्ञ की सलाह लें जो कि उस क्षेत्र में लाइसेसं प्राप्त अथवा विशेष ज्ञानी हो।


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:General_disclaimer&oldid=1217601857

Content: 
 
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate, or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will. However,   The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized, or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works  .
 Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content. However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever. Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops, or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers, or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify, or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, or similar rights that are mentioned, used, or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated, Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by, nor affiliated with, any of the holders of any such rights, and as such, Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or recently-deceased. The use of images of living or recently-deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.  
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution. Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain, or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management), please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://mk.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%98%D0%B0:%D0%9E%D0%B4%D1%80%D0%B5%D0%BA%D1%83%D0%B2%D0%B0%D1%9A%D0%B5_%D0%BE%D0%B4_%D0%BE%D0%B4%D0%B3%D0%BE%D0%B2%D0%BE%D1%80%D0%BD%D0%BE%D1%81%D1%82

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 Википедија е колаборативна онлајн енциклопедија со отворена содржина, т.е. таа е волонтерско здружение на индивидуалци и групи кои работат за да развијат заеднички извор на човеково знаење. Структурата на овој проект овозможува секој кој поседува интернет пристап да ја менува неговата содржина. Ве молиме бидете советувани дека не с  што ќе пронајдете овде е рецензирано од луѓе со стручноста која е потребна за да бидете снабдени со комплетни, точни, или проверливи информации.
 Не велиме дека нема да најдете вредни и прецизни информации на Википедија; поголем дел од времето ќе најдете. Сепак,   Содржината на било која статија може да биде скоро променета, вандализирана или променета од некој чие мислење не е во совпаѓање со состојбата на знаење во релевантните полиња.
 === Без формална рецензија ===
Ние работиме на начини на селекција и истакнување на веродостојни верзии на статии. Нашата активна заедница на уредувачи користи алатки како што се   и   за набљудување на новите содржини и промените на веќе постоечките. Сепак, Википедија нема формална рецензија; иако читателите можат да поправаат грешки и да се вклучат во обична  , тие немаат правна должност да го прават ова, што значи дека сета прочитана информација овде е без гаранција за исправност за било која цел или употреба.
 
 Ве молиме осигурајте да разберете дека информациите што можат да се најдат овде се обезбедени слободно, и дека не е создаден никаков договор помеѓу Вас и сопствениците на ова веб-место, сопствениците на опслужувачите на кои тој е хостиран, поединечните соработници на Википедија, администраторите на проектите, системските оператори или било кој кој е на каков било начин поврзан со овој проект или сродни проекти кој е подложен на вашите тврдења помеѓу нив директно. На Вас ви е овозможена ограничена лиценца да копирате било што од ова веб-место; тоа право не создава или имплицира никаква договорна или вондоговорна одговорност на страната на   или било кој од нејзините агенти, членови, организатори и други корисници.
 , што се однесува на вашата употреба или модификација на овие информација покрај   (CC-BY-SA) и   (GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL)); ниту пак било кој од Википедија е одговорен ако некој ги промени, уреди, модифицира, или отстрани информациите што може ќе ги постирате на   или било кој од нејзините поврзани проекти.
 Било кој од   (трговски марки, услужни марки, колективни марки), правата на дизајнот, личните права или слични права што се споменати, искористени или цитирани во статиите на енциклопедијата Википедија се сопственост на нивните соодветни сопственици. Нивната употреба овде не значи дека може да ги користите за каква било намена надвор од истата или сличната информативна употреба како што е наведено од страна на оригиналните автори на овие Википедија статии под CC-BY-SA и GFDL лиценционите шеми. Доколку не е поинаку нагласено, веб-местата Википедија и Викимедија не се одобрени или поврзани со сопствениците на било кои слични прави и поради тоа Википедија не може да дозволува какви било права на употреба на различно заштитени материјали.  
 Објавувањето на информација што може да се најде на   може да биде некакво прекршување на законите на земјата од каде што ја гледате оваа информација. Базат
Ако имате потреба  некој специфичен совет (на пример, медицински, правен или финансиски), Ве молиме побарајте професионалец кој е лиценциран или запознаен во таа област.


URL: https://hy.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D5%8E%D5%AB%D6%84%D5%AB%D5%BA%D5%A5%D5%A4%D5%AB%D5%A1:%D4%B8%D5%B6%D5%A4%D5%B0%D5%A1%D5%B6%D5%B8%D6%82%D6%80_%D5%B0%D6%80%D5%A1%D5%AA%D5%A1%D6%80%D5%A1%D5%A3%D5%AB%D6%80

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 
 Վիքիպեդիան առցանց, ազատ բովանդակությամբ համատեղ ստեղծվող հանրագիտարան է, և  մարդկային գիտելիքների ընդհանուր շտեմարան ստեղծելու նպատակով միասին աշխատող անհատների ու մարդկանց խմբերի կամավոր համագործակցության արդյունքն է։ Նախագծի կառուցվածքով ցանկացած մարդ, ով համացանցի հետ կապ ունի, կարող է փոխել հանրագիտարանի պարունակությունը։ Խնդրում ենք նկատի ունենալ, որ այստեղ գրված ոչ մի բան անպայմանորեն չի ստուգվել  փորձագիտական որակավորում ունեցող մարդկանց կողմից ձեզ ավարտուն, ճշգրիտ ու վստահելի տեղեկություններ հրամցնելու համար։
 Սակայն դա բնավ չի նշանակում, որ դուք Վիքիպեդիայում չեք գտնի արժեքավոր և ճշգրիտ տեղեկություններ։ Իրականում մեծիմասամբ այդպես էլ կլինի։ Սակայն,    Ցանկացած հոդվածի բովանդակությունը կարող է րոպեներ առաջ փոխված լինել, աղավաղված կամ փոփոխության ենթարկված որևէ մեկի կողմից, ում գիտելիքների մակարդակը չի համապատասխանում տվյալ բնագավառին վերաբերող ներկայիս իմացության մակարդակի հետ։  Ընդ որում շատ այլ հանրագիտարաններ և տեղեկատուներ նույնպես ունեն     ։
 Մենք աշխատոմ ենք ընտրել և առանձնացնել հոդվածների վստահելի տարբերակները։ Մեր խմբագիրների ակտիվ հանրությունը օգտագործում է այնպիսի գործիքներ ինչպես    և  , որոնք օգնում են վերահսկել նոր և փոփոխված բովանդակությունը։ Սակայն, Վիքիպեդիան միայն համամասնակիցների կողմից խմբագրվում է, ցանկացած ընթերցող որևէ սխալ նկատելու դեպքում կարող է շտկել այն կամ պատահական բնույթի խմբագրում կատարել (տես  : Համամասնակիցներն իրենք ոչ մի իրավական պարտավորություն չեն կրում դա անելու համար և ուստի այստեղ ընթերցված բոլոր տեղեկությունները ոչ մի երաշխիքներ չեն տալիս  որևէ նպատակի կամ օգտագործման տեսակի հետ դրանց համապատասխանության համար։  Նույնիսկ այն հոդվածները, որոնք համամասնակիցների ոչ պաշտոնական վերստուգման արդյունքում գնահատվել են որպես   հնարավոր է որ ավելի ուշ անհամապատասխան կամ անհարիր վերախմբագրման են ենթարկվել ճիշտ ձեր ընթերցումից առաջ։
 
 Խնդրում ենք հասկանալ, որ այստեղ զետեղված տեղեկատվությունը գրվել և առաջարկվել է անվճար, և որ ոչ մի տեսակի համաձայնագիր կամ պայմանագիր չի գրվել կամ  չի գրվելու ձեր և այս կայքի սեփականատերերի կամ օգտագործողների միջև, կամ այն սերվերների տերերի հետ, ովքեր հյուրընկալում են այս կայքը, ինչպես նաև Վիքիպեդիայի անհատ հոդվածագիրների, որևիցե նախագծի ադմինիստրատորների, սիստեմ օպերատորների կամ ցանկացած որևէ մեկի հետ, որը   այս նախագծի կամ քույր նախագծերի հետ, որոնց նկատմամբ դուք անմիջականորեն կարող եք որևէ բողոք ունենալ։ Ձեզ տրվում է սահմանափակ իրավասություն պատճենել կայքում զետեղված ցանկացած նյութ, ինչը չի ստեղծում կամ չի ենթադրում որևէ պայմանագրային կամ արտապայմանագրային պարտավորություն ոչ Վիքիպեդիայի կողմից ոչ էլ նրա որևէ գործակալի, անդամի, կազմակերպության կամ այլ օգտագործողների կողմից։ 
 Չկա    ձեր կողմից այստեղ եղած որևէ տեղեկույթի օգտագործման կամ փոփոխման վերաբերյալ՝ ավելին քան ենթադրվում է    (CC-BY-SA) և   (GFDL) արտոնագրերով, ոչ էլ Վքիպեդիայում որևէ մեկը պատասխանատվություն է կրում Վիքիպեդիայում կամ դրան կից նախագծերից որևէ մեկում ձեր տեղադրած ցանկացած նյութի համար, եթե այն փոխվել է, խմբագրվել կամ ջնջվել որևէ մեկի կողմից։
 Ցանկացած ապրանքանիշ, սպասարկման առևտրային խորհրդանիշ, հավաքական խորհրդանիշ, դիզայնի իրավունքներ կամ նմանատեսակ այլ իրավունքներ, որոնք հիշատակվում, օգտագործվում կամ ցիտվում են Վիքիպեդիա հանրագիտարանի հոդվածներում հանդիսանում են նրանց համապատասխան տերերի սեփականությունը։ Նրանց օգտագործումն այստեղ չի ենթադրում, որ դուք կարող եք օգտագործել դրանք ցանկացած ուրիշ նպատակով բացի նույնատեսակ կամ նմանատեսակ տեղեկատվական օգտագործումից  ինչպես նախատեսվել է Վիքիպեդիայի այդ հոդվածների սկզբնական հեղինակների կողմից՝ CC-BY-SA և GFDL արտոնագրային բանաձևերով։ Այլ հայտարարությունների բացակայության դեպքում Վիքիպեդիա և Վիքիմեդիա կայքերը ոչ լիազորված են այդ իրավատերերից որևէ մեկի կողմից. ոչ ստացել են նրանց թույլտվությունը, ոչ էլ որևէ այլ կապ ունեն նրանց հետ և որպես այդպիսին Վիքիպեդիան չի կարող օգտագործման որևէ իրավունք տալ այլ կերպ պաշտպանված որևէ նյութի համար։  Ձեր կողմից որևէ նման կամ նմանատեսակ սեփականատիրական իրավունքով պաշտպանված սեփականության օգտագործման պատասխանատուն միայն դուք եք։
 Վիքիպեդիան պարունակում է այնպիսի նյութեր, որոնք կարող են նկարագրել ճանաչելի անհատների, ովքեր ողջ են կամ վերջերս են հեռացել կյանքից։  Դեռ ողջ կամ վերջերս կյանքից հեռացած անհատների դիմանկարների օգտագործումը որոշ իրավադատություններում, սահմանափակվում է օրենքներով, որոնք կոչված են պաշտպանել  , անկախ նրանց դիմանկարներով նյութերի ունեցած հեղինակային իրավունքի կարգավիճակից։ Մինչև նմանատեսակ բովանդակությամբ նյութերի օգտագործումը, խնդրում ենք նախ համոզվել, որ իրավասու եք օգտագործել դրանք այն օրենքների ներքո որոնք կիրառելի են ձեր նախատեսած օգտագործման նկատմամբ։   
 Վիքիպեդիայից վերցված տեղեկույթի հետագա հրապարակումը, կարող է հակասել այն երկրի օրենքներին, կամ իրավադատությանը, որտեղից դուք դիտում եք այդ տեղեկատվությունը։ Վիքիպեդիայի տվյալների շտեմարանը տեղադրված է     նահանգում, և շահագործվում է  տեղական և դաշնային համապատասխան օրենքների պաշտպանության ներքո։ Ձեր երկրի օրենքները կամ իրավադատությունը կարող են չպաշտպանել կամ թույլ չտալ նմանատեսակ խոսքի ոճը (ազատությունը) կամ տեղեկատվության տարածումը։ Վիքիպեդիան չի խրախուսում որևէ օրենքի խախտում, այն դեպքում, եթե դուք կապվել եք այս ցանցային տիրույթի հետ կամ օգտագործում եք, կամ վերարտադրում, կամ վերահրապարակում եք այստեղ պարունակվող տեղեկույթը այլ իրավադատության տարածքներից։
 Եթե ձեզ պետք է որոշակի բնույթի խորհուրդ (օրինակ, բժշկական, իրավաբանական, ֆինանսական, ռիսկի կառավարման բնագավառներում) խնդրում ենք դիմել մասնագետի, ով արտոնված է կամ համապատասխան որակավորումով գիտելիքներ ունի այդ բնագավառում։ 


URL: https://ig.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content.  Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.  However,    The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.  
 We are working on ways to select and highlight reliable versions of articles.  Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content.  However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever.  Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/%EC%9C%84%ED%82%A4%EB%B0%B1%EA%B3%BC:%EB%A9%B4%EC%B1%85_%EC%A1%B0%ED%95%AD

Content: 
 위키백과는 온라인에 의해 내용이 개방되는 백과사전입니다. 다시 말해 위키백과에 참여하는 개인이나 단체는 인간이 창조하고 발견한 지식을 한 곳에 모으는 노력을 함께하고 있습니다.  과  를 쓸 수 있는 모든 사람은 누구나 위키백과에 참여하여 글을 쓰고 수록된 글을 보충 또는 수정할 수 있습니다. 그러므로 여기에 수록된 개별 분야에 관한 어떠한 글도 전문가에 의해 특별히 검토되지 않기 때문에 어떤 주제에 대해서도 정확하고 또는 신뢰할 수 있는 정보를 제공한다고 볼 수는 없습니다.
 그렇다고 해서 여러분께서 위키백과에서 가치 있고 정확한 정보를 얻을 수 없다는 것을 의미하지는 않습니다.   여기에 수록된 정보는 어느 사람에 의해서든지 조만간 수정되거나 변경 또는 심지어 훼손될 수 있습니다. 그리고 글을 쓴 참여자의 입장이나 의견이 여러분이 관심이 있고 정보를 얻고자 하는 특정 분야의 지적 수준에 부합되지 않을 수도 있습니다.
 작가, 참여자, 후원자, 관리자 혹은 위키백과와 관련된 어떠한 사람도 이 웹사이트의 페이지에 수록된 또는 링크된 정보를 여러분이 사용하는 것에 어떠한 책임도 지지 않습니다. 위키백과가 제공하는 정보는 여러분께서 자유로이 그리고 무료로 사용하신다는 것을 재삼 인식하여야 하며, 따라서 여러분과 이 웹사이트의 소유자 또는 특정 사용자 사이에서는 어떠한 종류의 허가나 동의 또는 접촉도 불필요합니다. 이 웹사이트가 등록된 서버의 소유자, 개별 참여자, 관리자 혹은 이 프로젝트 또는 자매 프로젝트와 관련된 어느 사람도 여러분의 직접적 항의로부터 유보됩니다. 여러분은 이 웹사이트에 수록된 내용을  에 따라 제한적으로 복사할 수 있으며 이를 필요에 따라 임의로 사용할 수 있습니다.
 위키백과에 사용 또는 인용된 등록상표, 서비스표식, 조합표식, 디자인권, 개별권 혹은 이와 유사한 권리 등은 해당 유동재산의 소유자의 권리에 속합니다. 위키백과에 글을 쓴 참여자가  의 보호를 받고 있을 수도 있는 이와 같은 종류의 유동재산을 사용하였을 때 이는  에 규정된 이와 관련된 내용 이외의 다른 목적으로 여러분이 사용할 수 있다는 것을 의미하지 않습니다. 위키백과 그리고 위키미디어의 웹사이트는 별도로 언급하지 않는 한 (이를테면   혹은  ) 저작권과 직접 혹은 간접적으로 관련된 사항을 확인해 드리지 않습니다.
 위키백과는 저작권의 보호를 받고 있는 자료가 수록되지 않도록 각별한 주의를 하지만, 때에 따라서는 저작권에 저촉된 내용이 위키백과의 문서에 수록되어 있을 수도 있습니다. 만일 여러분께서 이를 모르고 사용하였을 경우에 따르는 법적 문제는 전적으로 여러분 자신이 책임을 지게 됩니다.
 위키백과에 수록된 정보는 여러분이 현재 위치하고 있는 국가의 법에 저촉될 수도 있습니다. 여러분이 위치한 국가의 법은  의 법 또는  의 원칙에 따른 표현의 자유 보장을 넓은 의미에서 인정하지 않을 수도 있습니다. 위키백과는 여러분이 위키백과에 링크함으로써 혹은 여기에 포함된 어떤 정보를 사용함으로써 생길 수도 있는 법적 위반에 대해 어떠한 책임도 지지 않습니다.
 만일 여러분께서 특별한 분야(이를테면 의료, 법, 경제)에 조언이 필요할 경우, 이 분야의 전문가를 찾기를 권장합니다.


URL: https://ln.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Boyanoli_ndelo

Content: 
 Wikipedia ekomámí na bato baye balingí kosálisa, baye bazalí basáli tɛ́, bazwí mosɔ́lɔ́ tɛ́. Bakokí kokoma nkomá ya bosɔ̂lɔ́ kasi mpé bakokí komíkósa mpé kosála zíko.


URL: https://zh-yue.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:%E4%B8%80%E8%88%AC%E5%85%8D%E8%B2%AC%E8%81%B2%E6%98%8E

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 維基百科係網上內容公開嘅一部合作百科全書，係發展人類同享知識嘅志願組織。 呢項計劃嘅結構畀任何上到互聯網嘅人修改佢嘅內容。 請你明白：呢度無嘢真係一定被有專業知識嘅人審過；呢度啲料未必完備、準或者可靠。
 呢個並唔係講你喺維基百科上搵唔到有意義或者準確嘅資訊，但係要留意 。喺任何計劃頁嘅內容可能最近已經俾人改咗、破壞咗、或者俾某啲領域嘅認知唔同嘅人改咗源碼。請留意，好多其他百科全書同埋參考都有免責聲明。
 我哋嘅社群中嘅比較活躍嘅人會用 同埋 嘅工具嚟𥄫住新嘢同埋改過嘅嘢。然而，維基百科唔會受到正式嘅 （peer review）；雖然睇嘅人可以改瑕疵或者參考到唔正式嘅 入面，但係佢哋冇法律義務咁做，所以你喺呢度攞到嘅嘢都唔針對特定嘅目的或者一般人用嘅適用性提供任何暗示嘅保證。就算內容已經被同步審核通過或者經過 評選過嘅文章，佢依然可能係你瀏覽到之前啱啱俾人修改過。
 
 請明白，你喺呢度拎到嘅資訊都係自由、免費嘅，而且你唔會同呢個網站嘅擁有人或使用者、伺服器嘅供應商、任何維基百科嘅參與者（即係個人）、管理員、事務員，或者其他同呢個計劃或姊妹計劃有任何關聯嘅人建立任何申索嘅協議或合同。喺一個有限嘅授權之下，你可以由呢個網站複製任何內容，但係呢個並唔意味住維基百科同埋佢嘅代理人、成員、組織人或者其他使用者要去承擔任何契約性或者契約以外嘅責任。
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 如果你需要某啲方面（例如醫學、法律、財政、風險管理等）嘅專業建議，請搵返嗰方面有專業牌照或者相關專業知識嘅人。


URL: https://ilo.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Sapasap_a_renunsia

Content: 
 Ti Wikipedia ket maysa nga online nga addaan ti nawaya ken silulukat a linaon ken nagtitinnulungan nga ensiklopedia, daytoy ket sitatallugod dagiti gunglo ken bunggoy nga agub-obra nga agparang-ay ti maysa a kadawyan a pamuspusan ti pannakaammo ti nagtagitaoan.
 Saan nga ibagbaga a saan ka a makabiruk ti napateg ken agpayso a pakaammo ditoy Wikipedia; adun to a darikmat a makabirukam ditoy. Nupay kasta,   Ti linaon ti ania man a maysa a naited nga artikulo ket mabalin a nasukatan, na-bandelismo wenno binaliwan ti sinoman nga addaan ti kapanunotan a saan nga agpada iti kasasad ti pannakaammo kadagiti maipaay a paset. Ipaammo a kaaduan kadagiti ensiklopedia ken ob-obra a pagibasaran ket addaan da ti kastoy a kapadpada a  . 
 Agub-obra kami ti sabsabali a banag ken waya ti panagpili kadagiti mapagtalken a bersion dagiti artikulo. Dagiti nasiglat nga agur-urnos iti daytoy a komunidad ket agus-usar da kadagiti ramramit a kas dagiti   ken   tapno masiputan da dagiti baro ken nasuksukatan a linaon. Nupay kasta, ti Wikipedia ket saan nga agpapada a mairepaso; bayat a dagiti agbasbasa ket mabalin da nga agpalaing kadagiti biddut wenno makitulag da ti kadawyan a pangrepaso, awanen da ti linteg nga agaramid ken isu a dagiti pakaammo a mabasa ditoy ket awan ti maipaltiing a garantia iti maitutop para iti ania man a maipanggep wenno ania man a panagusar. Uray dagita artikulo a naipatalgedan ti saan a pormal a panagrepaso wenno dagiti panagaramid kadagiti napili nga artikulo, mabalin a madi wenno saan a nasayaat ti pannakabaliw wenno pannaka-urnos da sakbay a kinitam dagitoy.
 
 Pangngaasi a maawatam a ti pakaammo a naited ditoy ket nawaya a maiwarwaras, ken awan ti ania man a tulag wenno kontrato a naaramid baetan kenka ken dagiti akinkukua weno agus-usar iti daytoy a pagsaadan, dagiti akinkukua kadagiti servers a nakaibalayan da, ti agmaymaysa a tao a nagparawad iti Wikipedia, dagiti sinoman nga administrador ti gandat, dagiti sysop wenno sinoman nga   iti daytoy a gandat wenno dagiti kakabsat na a gandat kadagiti panagtutunton mo a panagsupiat kaniada a naidagus. Naipaayan ka ti napatinggaan a lisensia ti agkopia ti ania man manipud iti daytoy a pagsaadan; saan a maka-aramid wenno agipaltiing ti ania man a kontrato wenno mainayon a kontrato a mairebbengan a naibagi ti Wikipedia wenno annia kadigiti ahente, kam-kameng, dagiti agu-ornos wenno dagiti sabsabali nga agus-usar.
 Ti ania man kadagiti marka ti pabrika, marmarka ti serbisio, naur-urnong a marmarka ti karkarbengan dagiti daremdem wenno kapadpada na a karkarbengan a naibaga, nga nausar wenno nadakamat kadagiti artikulo iti Wikipedia nga ensiklopedia ket kabukbukodan dagiti agtagikua. Ti panagusar kadagitoy ket saan nga agibagbaga a mausar mo iti ania man a panggep ngem ti laeng kapadpada na, wenno kapada na a pannakaammo a panagusar a naimatangan babaen dagiti kasisigud a nagsurat iti dagitoy nga artikulo ti Wikipedia a naisakupan babaen ti   (CC-BY-SA) ken   (GFDL) a panag-lisensia. Malaksid no saan nga naibaga ti Wikipedia ken Wikipedia a pagsasaadan ket saan a bigbigen wenno kumadua kadagiti ania man nga agtengtengngel kadagiti karbengan ken ti Wikepedia ket saan a makaited kadagiti karbengan a mausar kadagiti nasalakniban a materiales. Ti panagusar mo kadagitoy wenno ti kapadpadana a materiales a sanikua ti kampania ket adda kaniamon a panag-peggad.
 Ti Wikipedia ket naglaon kadagiti materiales a mabalin nga agiladawan ti saan a mainaganan a tao a sibibiag wenno katkatay laeng. Ti panagusar kadagiti imahen iti sibibiag wenno katkatay a tat-tao ket, iti dadduma a naisakupan, maiparit babaen ti linteg a maipanggep kadagiti karbengan ti peronalidad, a nawayaan manipud kadagiti kaniada a karbengan a kasasaad. Sakbay nga agusar kadagitoy a kita ti linaon, pangngaasi nga addaan ka ti karbengan nga agusar babaen kadagiti linteg a maidangep ti pasamak a panggepen ti panagusar mo.  
 Ti panagipablaak iti pannakaammo a mabirukan iti Wikipedia ket mabalin a makalabsing kadagiti linteg iti pagilian wenno nakaisakupan manipud ti panag-buybuyam iti datoy a pannakaammo. Ti Wikipedia database ket naipenpen iti server idiay Estado iti   iti  , ken naitaripatuan a nai-reperensia iti panagsalaknib a naited babaen ti lokal ken federal a linteg. Dagiti linteg iti pagiliam wen naisakupan ket mabalin a saan nga agsalaknib wenno agipalubos ti kapadpadana a kita ti bitla wenno panagiwarwaras. Ti Wikipedia ket saan na a paregtaen ti agpalabsing kadagiti ania man a linteg; ken saan nga akinrebbeng ti ania man a panaglabsing ti kasta a linteg, no agsilpo ka iti daytoy a pagturayan wenno agusar, alagaden, wenno agipablaak ti pannakaammo a linaon ditoy.
 No masapul mo ti naisangayan a bagbagaan (kas pagarigan, panagagas, linteg, busbos, wenno panagtaripatu ti peggad) pangngaasi nga agbiruk ka ti propesional wenno dagiti makaammo iti dayta a disso.


URL: https://lb.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: Editeur vun dësem Internetsite ass d' , déi der   kontaktéiere kënnt.


URL: https://hr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedija:Op%C4%87e_odricanje_od_odgovornosti

Content:  –   –   –  
 W 
  je internetska enciklopedija otvorenog sadržaja koja funkcionira na temelju volonterske suradnje pojedinaca i skupina pojedinaca, s zajedničkim ciljem stvaranja izvora ljudskog znanja. Ustrojstvo projekta omogućava svakoj osobi s vezom na Internet i preglednikom World Wide Weba mijenjanje sadržaja enciklopedije. Molimo shvatite da nijedan podatak koji ovdje pronađete nije nužno provjerio profesionalac, niti ovdjeprisutni mogu osigurati potpunu, točnu ili pouzdanu informaciju.
 To ne znači da u   nećete pribaviti vrijednu i točnu informaciju, naprotiv, najčešće hoćete. Međutim,    Sadržaj članaka može u svakom trenutku izmijeniti, vandalizirati ili preinačiti pojedinac čije mišljenje nije odraz znanja iz tog područja.  
 Trenutno radimo na načinima odabiranja i isticanja pouzdanih inačica članaka. Naša aktivna zajednica urednika pri praćenju i mijenjanju sadržaja koristi alate poput pohrane   i  . No   se ne pregledava ujednačeno, a čitatelji se, iako mogu ispravljati greške, ne nalaze pod pravnom obvezom, pa informacije koje ovdje pročitate nemaju naznačeno jamstvo ispravnosti za bilo kakvo korištenje. Čak i ravnopravno i nepristrano vrednovani ili   zadržavaju vjerojatnost naknadnog neprikladnog uređivanja.
 Molimo, shvatite da doprinose u vidu informacija dajete slobodno, i pritom ne dolazi ni do kakavog sporazuma između vas i vlasnika ili korisnika stranica, vlasnika poslužitelja na kojima su postavljene, pojedinih suradnika  , administratora projekta, "sysopa" ili ikoga tko je   s ovim ili nekim od sestrinskih projekata. Ta ista osoba ne može izravno odgovarati na vaše optužbe. Dodijeljena vam je ograničena licenca s pravom kopiranja cjelokupnog sadržaja ovih stranica, no ona ne podrazumijeva niti dovodi do ugovorne ili izvanugovorne odgovornosti   ili njenih agenata, članova, organizatora ili drugih korisnika.
  u vezi Vašeg korištenja ili modificiranja ovih informacija izvan okvira   licencije i   (GFDL); niti je itko na Wikipediji odgovoran ukoliko netko izmijeni, uredi, promijeni ili ukloni bilo koju informaciju koju ste možda postavili na Wikipediji ili bilo kojem s njom povezanih projekata. 
 Zaštitni znakovi, zbirni i znakovi službe, patentna prava, prava identiteta ili slična spomenuta, korištena ili u Wikipedijinim člancima navedena prava, su imovina svojih vlasnika. Njihova pojavnost na ovim stranicama ne znači da ih možete koristiti za svrhu drugačiju od iste ili slične informacijske namjene, a u skladu s namjerom autora enciklopedijskih članaka u skladu s GFDL dozvolom. Osim ako nije drugačije navedeno,   Wikipedia i Wikimedia ne podržavaju niti su ni na koji način povezani s nositeljima tih prava, pa kao takva   ne jamči pravo na korištenje inače zaštićene građe.  
 Podaci objavljeni u   možda krše zakone države iz koje pregledate te podatke. Wikipedijina baza podataka nalazi se na poslužitelju u  , te se održava u skladu s uputama o čuvanju koje pružaju mjesni i federalni zakoni. Zakonska regulativa u vašoj zemlji možda ne štiti ili ne dopušta istu slobodu govora ili kopiranja.   ne potiče kršenje zakona, niti se može smatrati odgovornom za zlodjela koja proizlaze iz vašeg povezivanja na ovu domenu, korištenja, reprodukcije ili objavljivanja informacija koje ovdje pronađete.
 Ako trebate savjet u nekom području (medicina, pravo, financije, ili vezano uz određeni rizik), molimo potražite stručnjaka koji je licenciran, poznat ili prihvaćen u svom području. Za posebna odricanja pogledajte  ,   i  .
 Zahvaljujemo na vremenu koje ste utrošili na čitanje ove stranice; nastavite uživati u blagodatima  !


URL: https://hr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedija:Op%C4%87e_odricanje_od_odgovornosti

Content:  –   –   –  
 W 
  je internetska enciklopedija otvorenog sadržaja koja funkcionira na temelju volonterske suradnje pojedinaca i skupina pojedinaca, s zajedničkim ciljem stvaranja izvora ljudskog znanja. Ustrojstvo projekta omogućava svakoj osobi s vezom na Internet i preglednikom World Wide Weba mijenjanje sadržaja enciklopedije. Molimo shvatite da nijedan podatak koji ovdje pronađete nije nužno provjerio profesionalac, niti ovdjeprisutni mogu osigurati potpunu, točnu ili pouzdanu informaciju.
 To ne znači da u   nećete pribaviti vrijednu i točnu informaciju, naprotiv, najčešće hoćete. Međutim,    Sadržaj članaka može u svakom trenutku izmijeniti, vandalizirati ili preinačiti pojedinac čije mišljenje nije odraz znanja iz tog područja.  
 Trenutno radimo na načinima odabiranja i isticanja pouzdanih inačica članaka. Naša aktivna zajednica urednika pri praćenju i mijenjanju sadržaja koristi alate poput pohrane   i  . No   se ne pregledava ujednačeno, a čitatelji se, iako mogu ispravljati greške, ne nalaze pod pravnom obvezom, pa informacije koje ovdje pročitate nemaju naznačeno jamstvo ispravnosti za bilo kakvo korištenje. Čak i ravnopravno i nepristrano vrednovani ili   zadržavaju vjerojatnost naknadnog neprikladnog uređivanja.
 Molimo, shvatite da doprinose u vidu informacija dajete slobodno, i pritom ne dolazi ni do kakavog sporazuma između vas i vlasnika ili korisnika stranica, vlasnika poslužitelja na kojima su postavljene, pojedinih suradnika  , administratora projekta, "sysopa" ili ikoga tko je   s ovim ili nekim od sestrinskih projekata. Ta ista osoba ne može izravno odgovarati na vaše optužbe. Dodijeljena vam je ograničena licenca s pravom kopiranja cjelokupnog sadržaja ovih stranica, no ona ne podrazumijeva niti dovodi do ugovorne ili izvanugovorne odgovornosti   ili njenih agenata, članova, organizatora ili drugih korisnika.
  u vezi Vašeg korištenja ili modificiranja ovih informacija izvan okvira   licencije i   (GFDL); niti je itko na Wikipediji odgovoran ukoliko netko izmijeni, uredi, promijeni ili ukloni bilo koju informaciju koju ste možda postavili na Wikipediji ili bilo kojem s njom povezanih projekata. 
 Zaštitni znakovi, zbirni i znakovi službe, patentna prava, prava identiteta ili slična spomenuta, korištena ili u Wikipedijinim člancima navedena prava, su imovina svojih vlasnika. Njihova pojavnost na ovim stranicama ne znači da ih možete koristiti za svrhu drugačiju od iste ili slične informacijske namjene, a u skladu s namjerom autora enciklopedijskih članaka u skladu s GFDL dozvolom. Osim ako nije drugačije navedeno,   Wikipedia i Wikimedia ne podržavaju niti su ni na koji način povezani s nositeljima tih prava, pa kao takva   ne jamči pravo na korištenje inače zaštićene građe.  
 Podaci objavljeni u   možda krše zakone države iz koje pregledate te podatke. Wikipedijina baza podataka nalazi se na poslužitelju u  , te se održava u skladu s uputama o čuvanju koje pružaju mjesni i federalni zakoni. Zakonska regulativa u vašoj zemlji možda ne štiti ili ne dopušta istu slobodu govora ili kopiranja.   ne potiče kršenje zakona, niti se može smatrati odgovornom za zlodjela koja proizlaze iz vašeg povezivanja na ovu domenu, korištenja, reprodukcije ili objavljivanja informacija koje ovdje pronađete.
 Ako trebate savjet u nekom području (medicina, pravo, financije, ili vezano uz određeni rizik), molimo potražite stručnjaka koji je licenciran, poznat ili prihvaćen u svom području. Za posebna odricanja pogledajte  ,   i  .
 Zahvaljujemo na vremenu koje ste utrošili na čitanje ove stranice; nastavite uživati u blagodatima  !


URL: https://lt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikipedija:Joki%C5%B3_garantij%C5%B3

Content: .


URL: https://ig.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content.  Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.  However,    The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.  
 We are working on ways to select and highlight reliable versions of articles.  Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content.  However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever.  Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://yi.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D7%B0%D7%99%D7%A7%D7%99%D7%A4%D6%BC%D7%A2%D7%93%D7%99%D7%A2:%D7%A7%D7%9C%D7%90%D7%A8%D7%A9%D7%98%D7%A2%D7%9C%D7%95%D7%A0%D7%92

Content: פאלגנד זענען עטליכע קלארשטעלונגען וואס איז וויכטיג צו נעמען אין אכט בעת איר באניצט זיך מיט דער  , די רשות דא צו ליינען איז אויף די פאלגנדע תנאים און אייער הסכמה צו זיי.
 מיר זענען דאנקבאר אויב איר וועט אייניגן פון אייער צייט דאס דורכליינען דעם גאנצן בלאט. און מיר האפן איר וועט הנאה האבן פון דער איבערלעבונג וואס וויקיפעדיע שטעלט אייך צו.
 ביטע מאכט זיכער אז איר פארשטייט אז די אינפארמאציע וואס ווערט דא צוגעשטעלט איז אהערגעשטעלט אויף א פרייען און אומזינסטן אופן, און עס איז נישט אפגעראכטן געווארן קיין שום אפמאכן אדער קאנטראקטן צווישן אייך און און די בעלי בתים פון דער פונדאציע אדער אנדערע באניצער אין דעם סייט, די בעלי בתים פון די סערווערס וואס אין זיי איז איינגעשפייכלערט די ענציקלאפעדיע, די פריוואטע פינאנציעלע ביישטייערער צו  , יעדער מנהל פון פון אלע פראיעקטן, טעכניקער אדער יעדער סיי וואסארא אנדערע מענטש וואס איז פארבינדן אויף סיי וואסארא אופן צו דעם פראיעקט אדער אנדערע וואס זענען עקספאוזט צו אייער טענה אויף א דירעקטן וועג. עס ווערט אייך געגעבן א   פון דא צו קאפירן טעקסט, און אויך בילדער.
 די אינפארמאציע ווערט אהערגעשטעלט אומזינסט, און עס איז   קיין שום אפמאך אדער פארשטענדעניש  , צווישן אייך און   אין צוזאמנהאנג צו אייער באניצונג אדער יעדע סיי וואסערע דיינער אן ענדערונג אין די אינפארמאציע, קיינער אין וויקיפעדיע איז נישט פאראנטווארטליך אויף קיין שום ענדערונג רעדאקטירונג, צולייגונג אדער אויסמעקעריי פון אלע אינפארמאציע, וואס איר זענט אויסגעשטעלט צו שרייבן אין   אדער אין סיי וואסארא אנדערע פראיעקט פארבינדן צו איר.
 די שרייבער אין וויקיפעדיע פארפליכטן זיך צו האנדלען אין איינקלאנג צום געזעץ מיטן גענצליכן תמימות, מיט א פערזענליכער און פובליק פאראטווארטליכקייט נישט צו ברעכן דאס געזעץ און נישט צו וואנדאליזירן די אינהאלט וואס ערשיינען אויפן סייט. עס איז נישט ערלויבט אריינצוברענגן טעקסט אדער פיילס פון סייטס וואס זענען באשיצט מיט קאפי רייט געזעצן, לשון הרע, פארשמוצנגן קעגן מענשטן, אדער א עבירה פון יעדן סיי וואסארא אנדערע געזעץ, אריינגערעכנט אויפצודעקן סודות פון לאנד, פריוואטע דאקומענטן, פריוואטקייט אינפארמאציע וואס פארשטערן די פריוואטקייט געזעצן פון דאס לאנד, פאנטענטן און ביזנעס סודות, און ביישפילן פון אנדערע.
 וואנדאליזירן ארטיקלען במזיד איז אן עבירה פון אינטערנעץ געזעץ. 
 וויקיפעדיע נעמט נישט קיין אחריות אויף קאפירעכט פארלעצונגען, לשון הרע, ארויסלאזן בשמוצינגן אויף אנדערע מענטשן, אדער סיי וואסארא בארעכונג פון סיי וואסארא געזעץ, אריינגערעכנט די ארויסגעבן סודות פון סיי וואסארא לאנד, פריוואטע דאקומענטן, ביישפילן, פאטענטן און ביזנעס סודות, און די פאראנטווארטליכקייט אויף די אקטן ליגן בלויז אויף די שרייבערס אליינס.
 די וויקיפעדיע דאטנבאזע איז איינגעשפייכלערט אויף א סערווער אין דעם שטאט   אין די  , און דאס איז אויפגעהאלטן און רעפערענץ צו די שוץ צוגעשטעלט דורך די לאקאלע און פעדאראלע געזעץ.
 געזעצן פון אייער לאנד אדער יוריסדיקציע קען מעגלעך נישט באשיצן אדער ערלויבן די זעלביגע סארט פארם פון רייד אדער פארשפרייטונג.
 וויקיפעדיע טוט חלילה נישט צורעדן צו ברעכן סיי וואסארא געזעצן; און קען נישט זיין פאראנטווארטליך פאר די עבירות פון די געזעצן, זאלט איר חלילה לינקן צו דעם דאומעין אדער נוצן, איבערקאפירן, אדער פובליצירן די אינפארמאציע דא אנאהאלטן.
 עס איז זייער מעגלעך אז פובליקירן די אינפארמאציע דא קען זיין אן עבירה לויט די געזעצן פון אייער לאנד אדער רעליגיע וואס האט די יוריסדיקציע דארטן פון ווי איר ליינט די אינפארמאציע.
 א האנדל-מארקע, באדינסט-מארקע, קאלעקציע-מארקע, אנצייכענען-רעכט און אזוינע רעכטן וואס ווערן דערמאנט, געניצט אדער ציטירט אין די ארטיקלען אין וויקיפעדיע זענען די אייגנטום פון זייערע אייגנטימערס. כאטש זיי זענען געניצט דא טאר מען נישט ניצן זיי פאר קיין שום אנדערן צוועק נאר וואס די מחברים האבן דערלויבט דורכן  GFDL דערלויבניש סכעמע. אחוץ ווען עס שטייט אזוי בפירוש די וויקיפעדיע און וויקימעדיע ערטער זענען נישט אינדארסירט און נישט פארבינדן מיט אבי  ווער עס האלט די רעכטן, און וויקיפעדיע שענקט נישט קיי רעכטן צו ניצן וואסערע געשיצטע מאטעריאלן. ווען איר ניצט אזעלכע אייגנטום נעמט איר אויף זיך פולע אחריות.
 וויקיפעדיע איז אן אנליין אפענער-אינהאלט קאלעבראטיווער ענציקאלפעדיע, ד.ה. א וואלענטירליכער איינזאמעלונג פון איטליכע מענטשן אדער גרופעס, וואס איינער קען נישט דעם צווייטען, וואס זענען פאראייניגט בלויז מיטן איין אייציגן ציל, צוזאמנארבייטן צו אנטוויקלען א בשותפות'דיגער מקור פאר מענטשליכער דעת. דער סטרוקטאר פונעם פראיעקט ערלויבט יעדן מיט א אינטערנעט פארבינדונג צו טוישן איר אינהאלט. ביטע זייט געצה'ט אז גארנישט וואס איר טרעפט דא איז זיכער איבערגעקוקט געווארן דורך מענטשן מיט די פארלאנגטע עקספערטיז, פאסענד צו אייך אהערשטלען מיט די פארגענצליכסטע,  ריכטיגע אדער פארלעסליכע אינפארמאציע.
 דאס איז נישט צו זאגן אז איר וועט נישט טרעפן ווערדפולע און אויסגעהאלטענע אינפארמאציע אין וויקיפעדיע; רוב מאל וועסטו יא. פון דעסט וועגן דאך,   די אינהאלט פון יעדע ארטיקל קען לעצטענס זיך האבן געטוישט, וואנדאלאזירט אדער גענדערט דורך איינעם וואס זיין מיינונג טוט נישט זיין אין איינקלאנג מיט די סטאטוס פון דעת אין דעם רעלאוואנטן פעלד.
 מיר ארבעטן אויף וועגן צו סעלעקטירן ארויסהייבן און אונטערשטרייכן פארלעסליכע ווערסיעס פון ארטיקלען. 
 אונזער אקטיווער קהילה פון רעדאקטארן באנוצן זיך מיט ספעציעלע געצייג דערפאר, ווי די   זייט, און   פיעדס צו מאניטערן נייעם און טוישענדן אינהאלט. פון דעסטוועגן דאך, איז וויקיפדיע נישט איוניפארמעלי חברים איבערגעקוקט; בשעת ליינער קענען טאקע פאררעכטן פעלערס, אדער טאקע זיך אריינלאזן און נאכקוקן און איבערגיין זייערע חברים'ס ארבייט, האבן זיי אבער נישט קיין שום לעגאלע פליכט דאס צו טאן, דעריבער זענען אלע אינפארמאציע וואס איר ליינט דא אן א אחריותדיגער ווארענטי אויף איר פאסיגקייט פאר סיי וואסארא ציל פון אייער דאס נוצן. אפילו די ארטיקלן וואס זענען יא איבערגעקוקט געווארן, און אפילו די  , קען דאס שפעטער געטוישט ווערן אויף צום שלעכט, נאכדעם וואס זיי זענען איבערגעקוקט געווארן.  
 
 
 ביטע כאפט אן אלע מעגלעכקייטן וואס פארלאנגען זיך איינצוזען אז אלע אינפארמאציע וואס איר זענט קונה פון   איז ריכטיג און פעסטגעשטעלט.
 אויב ס'איז דא פארשלאגן וועגן אקטיוויטעטן וואס זענען געפערלעך, אומלעגאל אדער נישט מאראליש, געדענקט אז יעדער איינער קען שרייבן אינפארמאציע אין  , און קען זיין אז זיי שטימען נישט  בכדי לספק עבורך את המידע, שנודע לך לגביו צורך באמצעי זהירות הולמים, או בצעדים שבהם אתה יכול לנקוט כדי למנוע פציעה, נזק גופני או כל נזק אחר לעצמך, ברכוש או מוניטין.
 איר דארפט זיין אויפמערקזאם אז אלץ וואס מען טרעפט אין וויקיפעדיע קען זיין נישט אינגאנצן אויסגעהאלטן, אדער פארגרייזט אדער אומלעגאל.
 פארלאזט זיך נישט אויף קיין שום אינפארמאציע וואס איר טרעפט אין וויקיפעדיע; די בעסטע זאך איז אליין באשטעטיקן.
 אויב איר דארפט ספעציפישע באראטונג (מעדיציניש, געריכטלעך, סכנה באהאנדלען), קאנפערירן אן עקספערט וואס איז ליעצנצירט אדער טאקע געלערנט אינעם פעלד.
 דער צוועק פון וויקיפעדיע איז צו ווערן א זאמלונג פון מענטשלעכע אינפארמאציע, און דערום אנטהאלט זי א סאך ארטיקלען געשריבן וואלונטערלעך דורך א סאך שרייבער.
 מען דארף געדענקען אז וויקיפעדיע איז א וואלונטערלעכער פראיעקט, און דערום קען עס ווערן א ביסל לאנג איידער אז וואנדאליזם וועט ווערן באהאנדלט. וויקיפעדיע נעמט נישט קיין אחריות איבער קיין שאדנס אין דער צייט.
 וויקיפעדיע איז א "יונגע" ענציקלאפעדיע וואס ווערט נאך אנטוויקלעט, און דערום ארטיקלען קענען אנטהאלטן גרייזן, איינשטעלן, קעגנזאצן אדער אומפאסונג מיט די אויבנדערמאנטע כללים.
ווייל וויקיפעדיע איז וואלונטערלעך קען זי נישט נעמען קיין אחריות איבער שאדנס פון ווענדן זיך צו די ארטיקלען. אויב עס איז דא א פארלעצונג פון די כללים וועט מען מאכן יעדן דראנג צו פארריכטן ארטיקלען.
 
 אויב זענט איר אין געברויך פון פראפעסיאנעלע הילף אדער עצות, צום ביישפיל, רפואה, דאקטעריי, לעגאליטעט, הלכה, מנהג, פינאנציעל, אדער סכנה באהאנדלען, א.א.וו. דאן ביטע זוכט אויף א פראפעסיאנאלער עקספערט וואס איז געליינסענסט און געלערנט אין דעם פעלד.
 וויקיפעדיע אנטהאלט א סאך סוביעקטן וועגן רפואה. טראץ דעם קענען מיר נישט צוזאגן בשום אופן אז די אינפארמאציע איז פארלעסלעך. אפילו ווען אלץ איז געשריבן ריכטיק איז נישטא קיין גאראנטי אז עס איז צוגעפאסט צו אייערע סימפטאמען.
 מעדיצינישע אינפארמאציע אין   איז, אין גוטן פאל, אלגעמיין און קען נישט פארבייטן קיין עצה פון א  , ד"ה א באפלומאכטיקער דאקטער, ווארטערקע, אפטייקער אדער אנדערע אזלעכע פערזאנען.   איז נישט קיין דאקטער.
 קיין איינע פון די ביישטייערער, ספאנסערס, אדימיניסטראטורן, אדער סיי ווער אנדערשט פארבונדן מיט וויקיפעדיע קען נישט נעמען קיין אחריות איבער די רעזולטאטן אדער בייטראגן פון פרווון צו ניצן אדער אדאפטירן טיילן פון ריכטיקער אדער פאלשער אינפארמאציע באווייזט אינעם וועבזייטל.
 
 נאטירלעך זענען אייך געבעטען ביישטייערן צו ארטיקלען וועגן   אדער   און ניצן יעדן אינהאלט וואס געפינט זיך דא אונטער דער GNU פרייע באנוץ ליצענץ.
 וויקיפעדיע אנטהאלט ארטיקלען וועגן א סאך געזעצלעכע טעמעס. אבער, ווייל זי איז א פריינע ענציקלאפעדיע קען די אינפארמאציע ווערן אומפינקטלעך. די דאזיקע ארטיקלען זאלן נישט ווערן געזען אלס פינקטלעכע געזעצלעכע אינפארמאציע.
ייתכנו שינויים בדין החל ממדינה למדינה, וכן יתכנו שינויים בחקיקה ובפסיקה של כל מדינה ומדינה. ערכים יכולים להיות מבוססים על המצב המשפטי ששרר בעת הכנתם, אולם עובדה מסוימת, תקדים חדש, או הלך רוח שונה בבתי המשפט, עשויים לשנות את המצב, ואף להפוך אותו לחלוטין.
 המידע המצוי בוויקיפדיה הינו מידע כללי, ואין בו כדי להחליף מידע הניתן על ידי בעל מקצוע. על המעונין בייעוץ משפטי פרטני לפנות לעורך דין העוסק בתחום, ואין ויקיפדיה אחראית לכל נזק או תוצאה שתגרם בעקבות הסתמכות על המידע המופיע בה.
 אין הכותבים בוויקיפדיה נותנים ייעוץ משפטי כהגדרתו בחוק, ואינם מתיימרים ליתן ייעוץ כזה.
 ויקיפדיה נערכת על ידי הציבור הרחב של משתמשי האינטרנט ולכן תיתכנה השחתות הן של מלל והן של תמונות. אין ויקיפדיה אחראית להשחתות אלה, ועושה כל מאמץ על מנת לתקנן.
 כעיקרון ויקיפדיה מאפשרת העלאת תמונות או כתיבת תוכן אשר אינו מפר את הכללים שלה, ואת חוקי המדינה, כך מאופשרת העלאת כל תוכן מקורי בעל ערך אנציקלופדי, אשר ניתן לתומכו, ואשר אינו מהווה הפרה של זכויות יוצרים ומבצעים. הפרות של כלל זה הינן השחתה, וויקיפדיה עושה כל מאמץ למנוע אותן.


URL: https://li.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Algemein_aafwiezing_aansjpraokelikheid

Content: Dees internet-encyclopedie weurt oeteindelijk gesjreve doer jikkerinne dae mit wil sjrieve. Ondanks dat vriewal jikkerinne dae mithölp korrekte informatie prebiert te versjtrèkke kint d'r gein garantie weure gegaeve betriffende de informatie hie. Jikkerinne dae zichzelf deskundig vink maog de tèks verangere. 'n Dudelike fout zal anger medewerkers waal sjnel opvalle en waarsjienlik weure verbaeterd. De tendens is dat artikele oetgebreider en correcter weure. 
 't Is versjtendeg om veur belangrieke dinger naeve dees encyclopedie auch angere nasjlaagwirke of sjpesjelistiese beuk te laeze.
 As e dinks ein   te zeen, bis e wèlkóm om die metein te verbaetere, of - in geval van twiefel 'n opmerking achter te laote op de   van de betriffende pazjena.
 De vriewilligers die dees encyclopedie sjrieve aanvaarde gein aansjpraokelikheid veur de korrektheid van de gegaeve informatie. Ze kinne zelfs neet garandere dat de auteurs zorgvuldigheid zint gewaes bie 't formulere van de artikele. Gebroek van de informatie is gans vrie, meh dan waal veur eige risico.
 D'r zint gebroekers ( ) die op dees website extra meugelikheid op technisch nivo höbbe. Zoas 't weghaole van pazjena's, beveilige van pazjena's en 't ontnömme van sjriefrechte aan gebroekers. Dit zint meugelijkheid die gewoen gebroekers neet höbbe. Deze groep van vriewilligers zint neet de webmasters mer ieder de conciërges van Wikipedia. 't Is 'n oetveurende functie. 't Dageliks besjtuur van de Limburgse Wikipedia besjtit oet de gemeinsjap van de Limburgse Wikipedia.
 Op juridies vlak is de   de eindverantwoerdelikke.
 Als d'r volgens uch ein probleem is, num dan iesjt contac op mèt de Limburgse Wikipedia. As geer een klach wilt versjture dan is dat auch meugelik, op 't Ingelsj, nao:
 Al 't tekstuele matteriaal op Wikipedia vilt onger de  -licentie. Wèn se sjtuk zuus dat urges angesj vandaan kump (book, website...), zonger permissie van de auteursrechhubbende, mèld 't dan of veranger de tèks zelf.


URL: https://haw.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:N%C4%81_a%E2%80%98o_%E2%80%98ana_laul%C4%81

Content: E nānā i ka moʻolelo ma   (i ka ʻōlelo Pelekania), ke ʻoluʻolu.


URL: https://hy.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D5%8E%D5%AB%D6%84%D5%AB%D5%BA%D5%A5%D5%A4%D5%AB%D5%A1:%D4%B8%D5%B6%D5%A4%D5%B0%D5%A1%D5%B6%D5%B8%D6%82%D6%80_%D5%B0%D6%80%D5%A1%D5%AA%D5%A1%D6%80%D5%A1%D5%A3%D5%AB%D6%80

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 
 Վիքիպեդիան առցանց, ազատ բովանդակությամբ համատեղ ստեղծվող հանրագիտարան է, և  մարդկային գիտելիքների ընդհանուր շտեմարան ստեղծելու նպատակով միասին աշխատող անհատների ու մարդկանց խմբերի կամավոր համագործակցության արդյունքն է։ Նախագծի կառուցվածքով ցանկացած մարդ, ով համացանցի հետ կապ ունի, կարող է փոխել հանրագիտարանի պարունակությունը։ Խնդրում ենք նկատի ունենալ, որ այստեղ գրված ոչ մի բան անպայմանորեն չի ստուգվել  փորձագիտական որակավորում ունեցող մարդկանց կողմից ձեզ ավարտուն, ճշգրիտ ու վստահելի տեղեկություններ հրամցնելու համար։
 Սակայն դա բնավ չի նշանակում, որ դուք Վիքիպեդիայում չեք գտնի արժեքավոր և ճշգրիտ տեղեկություններ։ Իրականում մեծիմասամբ այդպես էլ կլինի։ Սակայն,    Ցանկացած հոդվածի բովանդակությունը կարող է րոպեներ առաջ փոխված լինել, աղավաղված կամ փոփոխության ենթարկված որևէ մեկի կողմից, ում գիտելիքների մակարդակը չի համապատասխանում տվյալ բնագավառին վերաբերող ներկայիս իմացության մակարդակի հետ։  Ընդ որում շատ այլ հանրագիտարաններ և տեղեկատուներ նույնպես ունեն     ։
 Մենք աշխատոմ ենք ընտրել և առանձնացնել հոդվածների վստահելի տարբերակները։ Մեր խմբագիրների ակտիվ հանրությունը օգտագործում է այնպիսի գործիքներ ինչպես    և  , որոնք օգնում են վերահսկել նոր և փոփոխված բովանդակությունը։ Սակայն, Վիքիպեդիան միայն համամասնակիցների կողմից խմբագրվում է, ցանկացած ընթերցող որևէ սխալ նկատելու դեպքում կարող է շտկել այն կամ պատահական բնույթի խմբագրում կատարել (տես  : Համամասնակիցներն իրենք ոչ մի իրավական պարտավորություն չեն կրում դա անելու համար և ուստի այստեղ ընթերցված բոլոր տեղեկությունները ոչ մի երաշխիքներ չեն տալիս  որևէ նպատակի կամ օգտագործման տեսակի հետ դրանց համապատասխանության համար։  Նույնիսկ այն հոդվածները, որոնք համամասնակիցների ոչ պաշտոնական վերստուգման արդյունքում գնահատվել են որպես   հնարավոր է որ ավելի ուշ անհամապատասխան կամ անհարիր վերախմբագրման են ենթարկվել ճիշտ ձեր ընթերցումից առաջ։
 
 Խնդրում ենք հասկանալ, որ այստեղ զետեղված տեղեկատվությունը գրվել և առաջարկվել է անվճար, և որ ոչ մի տեսակի համաձայնագիր կամ պայմանագիր չի գրվել կամ  չի գրվելու ձեր և այս կայքի սեփականատերերի կամ օգտագործողների միջև, կամ այն սերվերների տերերի հետ, ովքեր հյուրընկալում են այս կայքը, ինչպես նաև Վիքիպեդիայի անհատ հոդվածագիրների, որևիցե նախագծի ադմինիստրատորների, սիստեմ օպերատորների կամ ցանկացած որևէ մեկի հետ, որը   այս նախագծի կամ քույր նախագծերի հետ, որոնց նկատմամբ դուք անմիջականորեն կարող եք որևէ բողոք ունենալ։ Ձեզ տրվում է սահմանափակ իրավասություն պատճենել կայքում զետեղված ցանկացած նյութ, ինչը չի ստեղծում կամ չի ենթադրում որևէ պայմանագրային կամ արտապայմանագրային պարտավորություն ոչ Վիքիպեդիայի կողմից ոչ էլ նրա որևէ գործակալի, անդամի, կազմակերպության կամ այլ օգտագործողների կողմից։ 
 Չկա    ձեր կողմից այստեղ եղած որևէ տեղեկույթի օգտագործման կամ փոփոխման վերաբերյալ՝ ավելին քան ենթադրվում է    (CC-BY-SA) և   (GFDL) արտոնագրերով, ոչ էլ Վքիպեդիայում որևէ մեկը պատասխանատվություն է կրում Վիքիպեդիայում կամ դրան կից նախագծերից որևէ մեկում ձեր տեղադրած ցանկացած նյութի համար, եթե այն փոխվել է, խմբագրվել կամ ջնջվել որևէ մեկի կողմից։
 Ցանկացած ապրանքանիշ, սպասարկման առևտրային խորհրդանիշ, հավաքական խորհրդանիշ, դիզայնի իրավունքներ կամ նմանատեսակ այլ իրավունքներ, որոնք հիշատակվում, օգտագործվում կամ ցիտվում են Վիքիպեդիա հանրագիտարանի հոդվածներում հանդիսանում են նրանց համապատասխան տերերի սեփականությունը։ Նրանց օգտագործումն այստեղ չի ենթադրում, որ դուք կարող եք օգտագործել դրանք ցանկացած ուրիշ նպատակով բացի նույնատեսակ կամ նմանատեսակ տեղեկատվական օգտագործումից  ինչպես նախատեսվել է Վիքիպեդիայի այդ հոդվածների սկզբնական հեղինակների կողմից՝ CC-BY-SA և GFDL արտոնագրային բանաձևերով։ Այլ հայտարարությունների բացակայության դեպքում Վիքիպեդիա և Վիքիմեդիա կայքերը ոչ լիազորված են այդ իրավատերերից որևէ մեկի կողմից. ոչ ստացել են նրանց թույլտվությունը, ոչ էլ որևէ այլ կապ ունեն նրանց հետ և որպես այդպիսին Վիքիպեդիան չի կարող օգտագործման որևէ իրավունք տալ այլ կերպ պաշտպանված որևէ նյութի համար։  Ձեր կողմից որևէ նման կամ նմանատեսակ սեփականատիրական իրավունքով պաշտպանված սեփականության օգտագործման պատասխանատուն միայն դուք եք։
 Վիքիպեդիան պարունակում է այնպիսի նյութեր, որոնք կարող են նկարագրել ճանաչելի անհատների, ովքեր ողջ են կամ վերջերս են հեռացել կյանքից։  Դեռ ողջ կամ վերջերս կյանքից հեռացած անհատների դիմանկարների օգտագործումը որոշ իրավադատություններում, սահմանափակվում է օրենքներով, որոնք կոչված են պաշտպանել  , անկախ նրանց դիմանկարներով նյութերի ունեցած հեղինակային իրավունքի կարգավիճակից։ Մինչև նմանատեսակ բովանդակությամբ նյութերի օգտագործումը, խնդրում ենք նախ համոզվել, որ իրավասու եք օգտագործել դրանք այն օրենքների ներքո որոնք կիրառելի են ձեր նախատեսած օգտագործման նկատմամբ։   
 Վիքիպեդիայից վերցված տեղեկույթի հետագա հրապարակումը, կարող է հակասել այն երկրի օրենքներին, կամ իրավադատությանը, որտեղից դուք դիտում եք այդ տեղեկատվությունը։ Վիքիպեդիայի տվյալների շտեմարանը տեղադրված է     նահանգում, և շահագործվում է  տեղական և դաշնային համապատասխան օրենքների պաշտպանության ներքո։ Ձեր երկրի օրենքները կամ իրավադատությունը կարող են չպաշտպանել կամ թույլ չտալ նմանատեսակ խոսքի ոճը (ազատությունը) կամ տեղեկատվության տարածումը։ Վիքիպեդիան չի խրախուսում որևէ օրենքի խախտում, այն դեպքում, եթե դուք կապվել եք այս ցանցային տիրույթի հետ կամ օգտագործում եք, կամ վերարտադրում, կամ վերահրապարակում եք այստեղ պարունակվող տեղեկույթը այլ իրավադատության տարածքներից։
 Եթե ձեզ պետք է որոշակի բնույթի խորհուրդ (օրինակ, բժշկական, իրավաբանական, ֆինանսական, ռիսկի կառավարման բնագավառներում) խնդրում ենք դիմել մասնագետի, ով արտոնված է կամ համապատասխան որակավորումով գիտելիքներ ունի այդ բնագավառում։ 


URL: https://gu.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%AA%B5%E0%AA%BF%E0%AA%95%E0%AA%BF%E0%AA%AA%E0%AB%80%E0%AA%A1%E0%AA%BF%E0%AA%AF%E0%AA%BE:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate, or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will. However,   The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized, or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works  .
 Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content. However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever. Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops, or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers, or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC-BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify, or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, or similar rights that are mentioned, used, or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated, Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by, nor affiliated with, any of the holders of any such rights, and as such, Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or recently-deceased. The use of images of living or recently-deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.  
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution. Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain, or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management), please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://wuu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:%E5%85%8D%E8%B4%A3%E5%A3%B0%E6%98%8E

Content: 是内容开放个在线个百科全书，伊是由个人搭仔团体志愿合作开发个人类知识个共有资源。箇只计划个体系允许任何人通过网络来修改其内容，故咾请注意侬勒拉箇埭寻着个内容，並弗一定畀任何相关领域个专家或者专业人员审查过，因此维基百科呒没办法保证畀侬看个信息是完善、正确、可靠个。
 箇並弗指侬勒拉维基百科浪寻弗着有价值个信息搭仔正确个信息，只是 。任何特定条目个内容侪可能勒拉最近畀人修改脱、破坏脱或者畀对相关领域认知状况弗一致个人改过。请注意，大多数百科全书同参考作品也有差弗多个 。
 阿拉社群当中活跃个编写人会得用 搭仔 工具来监视新个搭仔更改个内容。必过，维基百科个内容并呒没普遍接受同行评审；虽然讲读者好修改错误或者参与到非正式个同行评审当中去，伊拉並呒没法律义务箇能介做，故咾侬勒拉箇埭看到个获得个所有信息侪弗对或是针对特定目的或是一般使用个适用性提供任何暗示个保证。即使讲有星条目已经通过同行评审或者通过典范条目等个评选，伊拉还是咾有可能勒拉侬浏览之前刚刚修改过。
 
 请确认侬晓得，侬勒拉箇埭获得个信息侪是自由个、免费个，任何人搭侬呒没契约或者合同关系，无论是本站个用户、所有人、服务器提供商、任何维基百科参与个人自家、管理员，还是其他任何跟本计划搭仔相关计划有直接或者间接关系个个人或者团体。勒拉有限许可下头，侬好随便从本站拷贝任何内容，但箇並弗表示维基百科或者伊个代理人、成员、组织人或者其他用户对伊承担任何契约性个或者契约以外个责任。
 除脱知识共享 — 署名-相同方式共享 4.0 国际协议（CC-BY-SA）搭仔GNU自由文档许可证（GFDL），侬搭维基百科之间呒没协议跟使用或者修改箇星信息有关系；维基百科浪也呒没任何人应该对修改、编辑或者移除脱侬勒拉维基百科浪或者相关计划浪张贴个任何信息负责。
 维基百科条目里向用个或者提到个任何商标（包括服务商标、集体商标），或者是设计权搭仔提到个其他权利，侪属于渠对应所有人个财产。维基百科条目个原作者勒拉箇埭根据CC-BY-SA搭仔GFDL许可方案来用箇星商标，箇个意思並弗是侬也好做相同或者类似目的个使用。除脱另外有说明，维基百科或者维基媒体基金会跟任何箇类权利个所有人之间弗会有关系，故咾也呒办法授权侬用任何受到保护个内容。侬勒拉用任何箇种或者相似个无形财产个辰光要自家承担风险。
 维基百科包括好确认身份个活拉个或者最近过世个人个传记。勒拉某些司法管理区，有关 个法律限制随便用活拉个人或者最近故脱个人个照片，独立于箇星图个著作权状态。勒拉用箇星类型个内容之前，请确保跟你个目的相关个法律啊是真个畀侬用箇星内容个权利。侬需要对确保弗侵犯其他人个人格权全权负责。
 请注意，侬拿侬拉箇埭寻着个信息发布出去有可能会得违反侬勒拉个国家或者司法管理区个法律。维基百科个数据库侪存拉美国个服务器里向，故咾所有内容侪受到当地法律搭仔美国联邦法律个保护。侬勒拉个国家或者司法管辖区个法律有可能呒没对相同种类个言话或者发行进行保护。维基百科並弗鼓励任何人违反法律，故咾假使侬链接到箇只域名或者使用、拷贝、转载本站个信息，维基百科呒办法为可能个违反法律个做法负责。
 假使讲侬到箇埭个想法是看到具体个建议（比方讲勒拉医学、法律或者风险管理方面咾啥），请侬去咨询一名注册或者勒拉目标领域里向有能力个专业人士。


URL: https://lv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikip%C4%93dija:Saist%C4%ABbu_atrunas

Content:  ir interneta enciklopēdija ar brīvu, pašu dalībnieku veidotu saturu. Šo saturu var izmainīt jebkurš, kam pieejams  . Vikipēdijas rakstus veido, papildina un uzrauga cilvēki, kas pārsvarā nav profesionāļi attiecīgajās jomās un dara to pilnīgi brīvprātīgi bez jebkādas atlīdzības. Kaut arī mēs cenšamies ievietotos tekstus kontrolēt un pārbaudīt, tomēr jums jāņem vērā, ka šeit atrodamā informācija var būt nepilnīga, nepareiza vai neprecīza, un neviens no Vikipēdijas autoriem nevar garantēt rakstu patiesumu vai jebkādā veidā būt atbildīgs par sekām, kādas radušās, pielietojot informāciju, kas atrodama rakstos vai tajos esošajās ārējās saitēs. Mūsu lielākais sasniegums ir   un  , tomēr pat tie var būt tikuši izmainīti īsi pirms jūs tos lasāt.
 


URL: https://hi.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AA%E0%A5%80%E0%A4%A1%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%BE:%E0%A4%B8%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%A7%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%A3_%E0%A4%85%E0%A4%B8%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B5%E0%A5%80%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%A3

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 
 विकिपीडिया एक वेब आधारित सहयोग-प्राप्त ज्ञानकोश है, अर्थात्, यह मानव ज्ञान का आम संसाधन विकसित करने के लिए व्यक्तियों तथा समूहों का एक स्वैच्छिक संगठन है। इस परियोजना की संरचना अंतर्जाल संयोजन के साथ किसी भी व्यक्ति को इसकी सामग्री परिवर्तित करने की अनुमति देता है। कृपया यह ध्यान रखें कि यह आवश्यक नहीं है कि यहाँ पाई गई सामग्री की विशेषज्ञों द्वारा सही तथा विश्वसनीय जानकारी देने के लिए समीक्षा की गई हो।
 इसका यह तात्पर्य नहीं है कि आपको विकिपीडिया पर मूल्यवान तथा सही जानकारी नहीं मिलेगी; अधिकांशतः यह सही ही होगी। हालांकि,   किसी भी लेख की सामग्री को हटाया जा सकता है, उत्पात का शिकार हो सकती है अथवा ऐसे व्यक्ति द्वारा बदली जा सकती है जो उस संगत क्षेत्र में ज्ञान की अवस्था से भिन्न विचार रखता हो। ध्यान दें कि अधिकतर अन्य विकिपीडिया तथा सन्दर्भ कार्यों में भी   होते हैं।
 हम लेखों के विश्वसनीय संस्करण चुनने तथा हाइलाइट करने के तरीकों पर कार्य कर रहे हैं। हमारा सम्पादकों का सक्रिय समुदाय नयी तथा बदलती सामग्री पर निगाह रखने के लिये   तथा   फीड जैसे औजारों का प्रयोग करता है। हालाँकि विकिपीडिया की समीक्षा समान रूप से नहीं की जाती; यद्यपि पाठक गलतियों को सुधार सकते हैं तथा कैजुअल   में शामिल हो सकते हैं तथापि उन्हें ऐसा करने का कोई कानूनी कर्तव्य नहीं है तथा इस प्रकार यहाँ पढ़ी गयी सारी जानकारी किसी उद्देश्य या किसी प्रयोग के लिये बिना किसी क्रियान्वित फिटनेस वारण्टी के है। यहाँ तक कि जो लेख अनौपचारिक पीयर समीक्षा अथवा   प्रक्रिया से गुजरे है बाद में इससे पहले कि आप उन्हें देखें हो सकता है कि वो अनुपयुक्त रूप से सम्पादित किये गये हों।
 
 कृपया यह सुनिश्चित कर लें कि यहाँ उपलब्ध की गयी जानकारी मुक्त रूप से उपलब्ध कराई जा रही है तथा आपके एवं इस साइट के मालिकों या सदस्यों, सर्वर के मालिकों, एकल विकिपीडिया योगदानकर्ता, कोई परियोजना प्रबन्धक, सिस्टम ऑपरेटर या कोई अन्य जो इस परियोजना या इसकी किसी बन्धु परियोजना से   के मध्य आपके किसी प्रकार के दावे हेतु किसी प्रकार का ऍग्रीमेण्ट या अनुबन्ध नहीं हो रहा। आपको इस साइट से कोई सामग्री कॉपी करने हेतु एक सीमित लाइसेंस दिया जा रहा है; यह विकिपीडिया की तरफ से या इसके किसी एजेण्ट, सदस्य किसी अनुबन्धित या अतिरिक्त अनुबन्धित दायित्व को बनाता या क्रियान्वित नहीं करता।
  विकिपीडिया के   (CC-BY-SA) तथा   (GFDL) के अन्तर्गत ही है। इसके अतिरिक्त विकिपीडिया से जुड़ा कोई भी व्यक्ति किसी सामग्री में किसी के द्वारा परिवर्तन, सम्पादन, संशोधन तथा निकाले जाने हेतु जिम्मेदार नहीं होगा।
 कोई भी ट्रेडमार्क, सर्विस मार्क, साँझे/संयुक्त मार्क, डिजाइन अधिकार अथवा इसी प्रकार के अधिकार जो कि विकिपीडिया के लेखों में व्यवस्थित किये जाते हैं, प्रयोग किये जाते हैं अथवा उद्धृत किये जाते हैं वे उनके क्रमशः मालिकों की मिल्कियत हैं। उनके यहाँ प्रयोग का अर्थ यह नहीं है कि आप उनका समान अथवा समान जानकारीपूर्ण प्रयोग के अतिरिक्त अन्य कार्यों हेतु प्रयोग कर सकें जैसा कि इन विकिपीडिया लेखों के मूल लेखकों के द्वारा CC-BY-SA तथा GFDL लाइसेंस स्कीमों में वर्णित है। जब तक अन्यथा न कहा जाय विकिपीडिया तथा विकिमीडिया साइटें न तो इन अधिकारों के मालिकों से किसी प्रकार सम्बद्ध हैं और न ही समर्थित हैं अतः विकिपीडिया किसी अन्य रूप से सुरक्षित सामग्री के प्रयोग हेतु अधिकार प्रदान नहीं कर सकता। आपके द्वारा इस प्रकार या   का उपयोग आपके अपनी जिम्मेदारी पर है।
 विकिपीडिया में ऐसी सामग्री है जिसमें एक पहचान योग्य व्यक्ति को चित्रित किया गया हो जो जीवित या हाल ही में मर चुका हो। जीवित या हालिया मृत व्यक्ति के चित्रों का उपयोग कुछ अधिकार-क्षेत्रों में कॉपीराइट स्थिति के अलावा व्यक्तिगत अधिकारों से सम्बद्ध कानूनों द्वारा प्रतिबन्धित है। इस प्रकार की सामग्री के उपयोग से पहले कृपया यह सुनिश्चित कर लें कि आपको आपके आशयित प्रयोग से सम्बद्ध क्षेत्र में कानूनन इनके प्रयोग का अधिकार हो।  
 विकिपीडिया पर उपलब्ध सामग्री का प्रकाशन आप जिस देश में यह जानकारी देख रहे हैं, उस देश या क्षेत्र के कानून का उल्लंघन हो सकती है। विकिपीडिया डाटाबेस   के   प्रान्त के एक सर्वर में संगृहीत है तथा इसका प्रबन्धन/व्यवस्थापन स्थानीय तथा संघीय कानून में प्रदत्त सुरक्षा सन्दर्भानुसार होता है। आपके देश के कानून इस प्रकार के वक्तत्व्य या वितरण की सुरक्षा या अनुमति शायद न दे सकें। विकिपीडिया किसी कानून के उल्लंघन को प्रोत्साहित नहीं करता तथा इस प्रकार के किसी कानून के उल्लंघन हेतु जिम्मेदार नहीं ठहराया जा सकता चाहे आप इस डोमेन को लिंक कर रहे हों, यहाँ उपलब्ध सामग्री को प्रयोग कर रहे हों, पुनर्निर्मित अथवा पुनर्प्रकाशित कर रहे हों।
 यदि आपको विशिष्ट सलाह (उदाहरण के लिये, चिकित्सकीय, कानूनी, वित्तीय अथवा रिस्क प्रबन्धन आदि) चाहिये तो कृपया किसी व्यावसायिक विशेषज्ञ की सलाह लें जो कि उस क्षेत्र में लाइसेसं प्राप्त अथवा विशेष ज्ञानी हो।


URL: https://gor.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Mom%C4%81hu_umum

Content: Wikipedia yito ensiklopedia tuwangiyo bu'a-buade to delomo jaringan umum, ma'analiyo Wikipedia botiya himbunguwa lo tawu ngota wawu tawu daata ta hipokarajawa pe'eenta lo'u pereyi momongu sumberdaya bersama berupa pengetahuan umat manusia. Struktur proyeknya memungkinkan siapa saja yang memiliki koneksi Internet untuk mengubah isinya. Harap diketahui bahwa semua yang ada di sini belum ditinjau oleh orang-orang dengan keahlian yang dibutuhkan untuk menyajikan informasi yang lengkap, akurat, dan tepercaya.
 Bukan berarti Anda tidak dapat menemukan informasi berharga dan akurat di Wikipedia. Anda akan sering menemukannya. Akan tetapi,  . Isi artikel mana pun mungkin baru saja diubah, dirusak, atau diganti oleh seseorang yang opininya tidak sesuai dengan pengetahuan di bidang yang terkait. Harap diingat bahwa kebanyakan ensiklopedia dan karya referensi lainnya  .
 Komunitas penyunting kami yang aktif menggunakan perangkat seperti   dan   untuk mengawasi penambahan dan perubahan isi. Tetapi Wikipedia tidak mendapat penilaian sejawat secara merata. Walaupun para pembaca dapat memperbaiki kesalahan atau terlibat dalam proses   ( ) biasa, mereka tidak punya kewajiban hukum untuk melakukannya sehingga semua informasi yang disajikan di sini tidak disertai jaminan kelayakan untuk keperluan atau penggunaan apa pun. Bahkan artikel yang telah melalui proses penilaian sejawat informal atau   nantinya akan disunting secara tidak benar, tepat sebelum Anda membacanya.
 
 Harap yakinkan bahwa Anda mengerti bahwa informasi yang ada di sini disediakan secara secara bebas, dan tak ada perjanjian atau kontrak yang dibuat antara Anda dan para pemilik atau pengguna
situs ini, pemilik server yang ditempati, individu kontributor Wikipedia, pengurus proyek, atau siapa pun yang dengan cara apa pun   dengan proyek ini atau proyek kerabatnya yang dapat dijadikan dasar untuk melakukan tuntutan secara langsung terhadap mereka. Anda diberikan suatu lisensi terbatas untuk menyalin apa pun dari situs ini; hal tersebut tidak menyebabkan suatu kewajiban kontraktual atau ekstra kontraktual bagi pihak Wikipedia atau agen, anggota, penyelenggara, atau pengguna lain.
  mengenai penggunaan atau modifikasi informasi ini di bawah   ( , GFDL); juga tidak ada seseorang di Wikipedia yang bertanggung jawab jika seseorang mengubah, menyunting, memodifikasi, atau membuang informasi apa pun yang mungkin Anda masukkan di Wikipedia atau proyek lain yang berhubungan.
 Publikasi informasi yang ditemukan di Wikipedia mungkin melanggar hukum negara atau yurisdiksi di wilayah tempat Anda membaca informasi ini. Basis data Wikipedia disimpan di peladen di negara bagian   di  , dan berada dalam perlindungan hukum lokal dan federal setempat. Hukum di negara atau yurisdiksi Anda mungkin tidak melindungi atau mengizinkan pembicaraan atau distribusi yang serupa. Wikipedia tidak mendorong pelanggaran hukum apa pun; dan tidak dapat dikenai tanggung jawab untuk segala pelanggaran hukum tersebut, jika Anda menghubungkan ke ranah ( ) ini atau menggunakan, mereproduksi, atau menerbitkan ulang informasi yang tercantum di sini.
 Jika Anda mencari nasihat spesifik (contohnya medis, legal, keuangan, atau manajemen risiko) silakan cari seorang profesional yang berlisensi atau memiliki pengetahuan pada bidang tersebut.


URL: https://lij.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Avertense_gener%C3%A2li

Content: Avertense generale
-   
-   
-   
-   
 
 
 
A   a l'è un'enciclopedia online a contegnuo averto, fruto do travaggio de 'n insemme de volontai, co-o scopo de svilupâ 'na fonte de conoscença comun e libera. Sciben che gh'é de   e 'n scistema non ofiçiale de gestion anonimo e volontaio, a strutua de l'enciclopedia a permette a chi se sæ de modificâ o contegnuo de so pagine. 
 Pertanto, l'è necesaio tegnî a mente che: 
 
 
 . Sta cösa chi, naturalmente, a no l'inplica a mancança d'informaçioin interesante ò acuræ, ma l'é inportante savei che in sciâ Wikipedia ògni contegnuo o poeu ese modificòu, alteròu ò   da chi se segge. Questo scignifica che ogni dæto o informaçion prezente inte voxe da Wikipedia o poriæ no ritrae adeguatamente l'efetivo stato da conoscença condivisa ò a veitæ di fæti. Quarche ediçioin lengoisteghe da Wikipedia àn adotòu di  , ma senpre in forma volontaia e sença garançia. A cosa ciù vexinn-a a questo scistema de seleçion a l'è l'attuale seçion " ", ma ascì e voxe çitæ in essa porieivan ese stæte modificæ sença o contròllo necesaio. 
 
 
E informaçioin riportæ son fornie in mainea libera e gratoita; nisciun tipo d'acòrdio ò contræto o l'è stipulòu, manco inpliçitamente, tra l'utente e i propietai do scito, i utenti, i propietai di server, i aministratoî do progetto, i aministratoî de scistema ò qualonque atra parte a segge   a-a Wikipedia ò a-i progetti colaterali.
 Qualunque marco registròu, marco de serviçio, marco coletivo, drito de design, drito d'inmaggine, de confidençialitæ ò driti scimili, mençionæ ò dêuviæ inte voxe da Wikipedia, o l'é de propietæ di legittimi detentoî. Tutto o materiale inseio inta Wikipedia o ven pubricou da-i utenti (di quæ l'è conservou l'adresso IP a scopo caotelativo) segondo quante previsto da-e liçençie   e  . A Wikipedia a no poeu garantî che i utenti aggian seguio effettivamente quante previsto da-e liçençie sença lede arcun drito: a responsabilitæ da pubricaçion a l'aresta pertanto escluxiva di utenti. Se no diversamente diciarou, i sciti de Wikipedia e Wikimedia no son ni associæ a, ni approvæ da arcun di detentoî de tæ driti.   e a l'è espressamente vietâ.
 L'è garantio 'na liçençia limitâ de coppia di contegnui (segondo e condiçioin previste da-e liçençie   e  ), ma ciò no crea ni implica arcun-a responsabilitæ contrattuale ò extra-contrattuale da parte da Wikipedia ò de 'n qualunque di so agenti, membri, organizzatoî ò atre parte.
 
 
E informaçioin presente porieivan violâ quarche lezze do loeugo da-o quæ vegnan consurtæ. A Wikipedia a scoragisce a violaçion d'ogni lezze, ma percose e informaçioin son conservæ insce di server sciti in  , inti  , se mantegne comme rifeimento e dispoxiçioin generale stabilie da-o   da   e da-a   de  . E lezze do to paise porieivan no riconosce 'na proteçion do drito de parolla coscì ampia. A Wikipedia a no poeu ese consciderâ responsabile pe 'na qualunque violaçion into caxo, per exempio, se faççe a conescion ò s'adoeuvie un-a de informaçioin inte 'n paise into quæ tâ açion a constitoisce un illeççito.
 
 
Leze ascì i avertençe  ,   e   pe-e liberatoie ò pe de claosole speciffiche d'escluxon de responsabilitæ ( ).
 , percose essa a l'è un'associaçion volontaia d'individdoi solo in parte strutturâ e svilupâ liberamente pe creâ de risorse educative, colturali e informative, online e "averte".   e   circa o so utilizzo ò modiffica, a parte o rispetto de liçençie   e  ; a-o mæximo moddo, nisciun inta Wikipedia l'è responsabile pe-o fæto che chissessæ cange, modifiche ò rimoeuve qualunque informaçion che qualunque atro ò lê mæximo o posse avei inseio inta Wikipedia ò inte un quassessæ di so progetti associæ.
 O contegnuo de sta paggina o s'applica a   presente in Wikipedia.
 Graççie pe-o tempo che t'hæ dedicou a-a lettua de sti avertençe generale: t'aguemo 'na navegaçion utile e piaxeive in sciâ Wikipedia.


URL: https://lo.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%BA%A7%E0%BA%B4%E0%BA%81%E0%BA%B4%E0%BA%9E%E0%BA%B5%E0%BB%80%E0%BA%94%E0%BA%8D:%E0%BA%82%E0%BB%8D%E0%BB%89%E0%BA%9B%E0%BA%B0%E0%BA%95%E0%BA%B4%E0%BB%80%E0%BA%AA%E0%BA%94%E0%BA%84%E0%BA%A7%E0%BA%B2%E0%BA%A1%E0%BA%AE%E0%BA%B1%E0%BA%9A%E0%BA%9C%E0%BA%B4%E0%BA%94%E0%BA%8A%E0%BA%AD%E0%BA%9A

Content: ວິກິພີເດຍແມ່ນສາລານຸກົມເສລີທາງອິນເຕີເນັດ ຊຶ່ງເປັນຜົນຈາກການອາສາສະໝັກຂອງບຸກຄົນ ທີ່ຢາກພັດທະນາມັນໃຫ້ເປັນແຫຼ່ງຄວາມຮູ້ທົ່ວໄປຂອງມະນຸດ ທຸກ ໆ ຄົນສາມາດດັດແກ້ເນື້ອໃນຂອງວິກິພີເດຍໄດ້ ສະນັ້ນກະລຸນາຮັບຊາບວ່າເນື້ອໃນໃດ ໆ ກໍ່ຕາມໃນວິກິພີເດຍແຫ່ງນີ້ ອາດຈະບໍ່ໄດ້ຮັບການກວດກາໂດຍນັກວິຊາການຫຼືບຸກຄົນທີ່ມີຄວາມຮູ້ກ່ຽວກັບເລື່ອງດັ່ງກ່າວ ເພື່ອຮັບປະກັນຄວາມຊັດເຈນແລະຖືກຕ້ອງທຸກປະການ ແຕ່ອັນນີ້ກໍ່ບໍ່ໄດ້ໝາຍຄວາມວ່າ ຜູ້ໃຊ້ຈະບໍ່ສາມາດພົບຫາເນື້ອໃນທີ່ມີຄຸນຄ່າແລະຊັດເຈນຢູ່ວິກິພີເດຍໄດ້
 ວິກິພີເດຍມີຂໍ້ມູນທີ່ບໍ່ຊັດເຈນເຊິ່ງຈະບໍ່ພົບຢູ່ໃນສານຸກົມທຳມະດາ ຂອບເຂດຂອງເນື້ອໃນຂອງວິກິພີເດຍແມ່ນຂຶ້ນກັບຜົນປະໂຫຍດຂອງອາສາສະໝັກທີ່ປະກອບສ່ວນ ຜູ້ອ່ານບໍ່ຄວນຕັດສິນຄວາມສໍາຄັນຂອງຫົວຂໍ້ໂດຍຜູ້ຂຽນຂອງມັນຢູ່ໃນວິກິພີເດຍ ຫຼືສົມມຸດວ່າຫົວຂໍ້ແມ່ນສໍາຄັນ ພຽງແຕ່ເນື່ອງຈາກຖືກຂຽນກ່ຽວກັບວິກິພີເດຍ
 ຂໍ້ມູນທາງການແພດໃນບົດຄວາມຂອງວິກິພີເດຍ ເປັນພຽງຂໍ້ມູນຊ່ວຍສຳຫຼັບການສຶກສາເທົ່ານັ້ນ ແລະຈະບໍ່ສາມາດທຽບກັບຄຳແນະນຳຂອງແພດ ພະຍາບານ ຫຼືຜູ້ຊ່ຽວຊານໄດ້ ດັ່ງນັ້ນກະລຸນາຢ່າອ້າງອີງເນື້ອໃນຈາກວິກິພີເດຍໃນການປົວພະຍາດ
 ຂໍ້ມູນທາງກົດໝາຍໃນບົດຄວາມຂອງວິກິພີເດຍ ເປັນພຽງຂໍ້ມູນຊ່ວຍເຫຼືອທາງການສຶກສາເທົ່ານັ້ນ ບໍ່ແມ່ນຂໍ້ມູນທາງກົດໝາຍທີ່ສາມາດໃຊ້ອ້າງອີງໄດ້ໃນສານ ແລະວິກິພີເດຍກໍ່ບໍ່ແມ່ນທະນາຍທີ່ຈະໃຫ້ທ່ານເອົາເນື້້ອໃນໄປອ້າງອີງໃນທາງຕຸລາການໄດ້
 ຈົ່ງຈື່ໄວ້ວ່າຂໍ້ມູນໃດ ໆ ທີ່ທ່ານອາດພົບເຫັນຢູ່ໃນວິກິພີເດຍອາດຈະບໍ່ຖືກຕ້ອງ ເຮັດໃຫ້ເຂົ້າໃຈຜິດ ເປັນອັນຕະລາຍ ຜິດສິນລະທຳ ຫຼືຜິດກົດໝາຍ
 ຂໍ້ມູນບາງຢ່າງໃນວິກິພີເດຍອາດຈະສ້າງຄວາມສ່ຽງທີ່ບໍ່ສົມເຫດສົມຜົນຕໍ່ຜູ້ອ່ານທີ່ເລືອກທີ່ຈະອີງໃສ່ຫຼືນໍາໃຊ້ຂໍ້ມູນໃນກິດຈະກໍາຂອງເຂົາເຈົ້າ ຫຼືປະກອບສ່ວນເຂົ້າໃນການນໍາໃຊ້ຂໍ້ມູນດັ່ງກ່າວໂດຍບຸກຄົນທີ່ສາມ


URL: https://gor.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Mom%C4%81hu_umum

Content: Wikipedia yito ensiklopedia tuwangiyo bu'a-buade to delomo jaringan umum, ma'analiyo Wikipedia botiya himbunguwa lo tawu ngota wawu tawu daata ta hipokarajawa pe'eenta lo'u pereyi momongu sumberdaya bersama berupa pengetahuan umat manusia. Struktur proyeknya memungkinkan siapa saja yang memiliki koneksi Internet untuk mengubah isinya. Harap diketahui bahwa semua yang ada di sini belum ditinjau oleh orang-orang dengan keahlian yang dibutuhkan untuk menyajikan informasi yang lengkap, akurat, dan tepercaya.
 Bukan berarti Anda tidak dapat menemukan informasi berharga dan akurat di Wikipedia. Anda akan sering menemukannya. Akan tetapi,  . Isi artikel mana pun mungkin baru saja diubah, dirusak, atau diganti oleh seseorang yang opininya tidak sesuai dengan pengetahuan di bidang yang terkait. Harap diingat bahwa kebanyakan ensiklopedia dan karya referensi lainnya  .
 Komunitas penyunting kami yang aktif menggunakan perangkat seperti   dan   untuk mengawasi penambahan dan perubahan isi. Tetapi Wikipedia tidak mendapat penilaian sejawat secara merata. Walaupun para pembaca dapat memperbaiki kesalahan atau terlibat dalam proses   ( ) biasa, mereka tidak punya kewajiban hukum untuk melakukannya sehingga semua informasi yang disajikan di sini tidak disertai jaminan kelayakan untuk keperluan atau penggunaan apa pun. Bahkan artikel yang telah melalui proses penilaian sejawat informal atau   nantinya akan disunting secara tidak benar, tepat sebelum Anda membacanya.
 
 Harap yakinkan bahwa Anda mengerti bahwa informasi yang ada di sini disediakan secara secara bebas, dan tak ada perjanjian atau kontrak yang dibuat antara Anda dan para pemilik atau pengguna
situs ini, pemilik server yang ditempati, individu kontributor Wikipedia, pengurus proyek, atau siapa pun yang dengan cara apa pun   dengan proyek ini atau proyek kerabatnya yang dapat dijadikan dasar untuk melakukan tuntutan secara langsung terhadap mereka. Anda diberikan suatu lisensi terbatas untuk menyalin apa pun dari situs ini; hal tersebut tidak menyebabkan suatu kewajiban kontraktual atau ekstra kontraktual bagi pihak Wikipedia atau agen, anggota, penyelenggara, atau pengguna lain.
  mengenai penggunaan atau modifikasi informasi ini di bawah   ( , GFDL); juga tidak ada seseorang di Wikipedia yang bertanggung jawab jika seseorang mengubah, menyunting, memodifikasi, atau membuang informasi apa pun yang mungkin Anda masukkan di Wikipedia atau proyek lain yang berhubungan.
 Publikasi informasi yang ditemukan di Wikipedia mungkin melanggar hukum negara atau yurisdiksi di wilayah tempat Anda membaca informasi ini. Basis data Wikipedia disimpan di peladen di negara bagian   di  , dan berada dalam perlindungan hukum lokal dan federal setempat. Hukum di negara atau yurisdiksi Anda mungkin tidak melindungi atau mengizinkan pembicaraan atau distribusi yang serupa. Wikipedia tidak mendorong pelanggaran hukum apa pun; dan tidak dapat dikenai tanggung jawab untuk segala pelanggaran hukum tersebut, jika Anda menghubungkan ke ranah ( ) ini atau menggunakan, mereproduksi, atau menerbitkan ulang informasi yang tercantum di sini.
 Jika Anda mencari nasihat spesifik (contohnya medis, legal, keuangan, atau manajemen risiko) silakan cari seorang profesional yang berlisensi atau memiliki pengetahuan pada bidang tersebut.


URL: https://gan.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:%E5%85%8D%E8%B2%AC%E8%81%B2%E6%98%8E

Content: 維基百科係網上內容公開嗰一部合作百科全書，係發展人類同享知識嗰志願組織。 箇項計劃嗰結構讓任何上到互聯網嗰人修改佢嗰內容。 請倷明白：箇首冇什哩真嗰係拕專業人士審過嗰；東西未必完備、準或者可靠。
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.  However,    The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.
 We are working on ways to select and highlight reliable versions of articles.  Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content.  However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever.  Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 倷=== 冇合同；有限嗰牌照 / No contract; limited license ===
Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://ky.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%8F:%D0%96%D0%BE%D0%BE%D0%BF%D0%BA%D0%B5%D1%80%D1%87%D0%B8%D0%BB%D0%B8%D0%BA%D1%82%D0%B5%D0%BD_%D0%B1%D0%B0%D1%88_%D1%82%D0%B0%D1%80%D1%82%D1%83%D1%83

Content: Бирок, Википедиядан пайдалуу жана так маалымат табылбайт деп айтканга болбойт, тескерисинче, басымдуу бөлүгү андай маалымат. Ага карабастан,  . Кандай гана макала болбосун, билимдин кандайдыр бир жаатындагы азыркы учурдагы кеңири таанылган жоболорун тааныбастык көз караштагы адам тарабынан жакында эле бурмаланып бойдон калышы мүмкүн.
 Жигердүү түзөтүүчүлөрүбүз Википедияда болгон бардык өзгөртүүлөргө « » жана « » сыяктуу куралдарды колдонуп көз салып турушат. Бул жумуш ыктыярдуу аткарылганына байланыштуу, Википедиядагы кандай гана маалыматтын, кандайдыр бир максатка ылайыктуулугуна же колдонулушуна эч кандай кепилдик берилбейт. Жада калса, расмий эмес эксперттик баалоодон өтүп, « » макамына ээ макалалар сиз окуурдун алдында чар-жайыт түзөтүлгөн болушу мүмкүн.
 
 Бул жердеги маалымат   ушул сайттын ээсинин же колдонуучуларынын, Википедия жайгаша турган серверлердин ээлеринин, Википедиянын айрым түзөтүүчүлөрүнүн, долбоордун администраторлорунун, тутумдук администраторлордун жана бул же тектеш долбоорлорго катышы бар, дооматыңыздын жоопкери болуп калышы мүмкүн адамдардын ортосунда  . Ушул сайттагы нерселерди көчүрүү укугу чектелет. Бул укук, Википедиянын бир дагы бөлүгү же анын агенттери, мүчөлөрү, уюштуруучулары же башка колдонуучулары үчүн эч кандай жарандык же башка түрдөгү жоопкерчиликти жаратпайт.
 Маалыматты Creative Commons Attribution/Share-Alike (CC-BY-SA) жана GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL) лицензиялары тышкары пайдалануу же өзгөртүү боюнча  . Ошондой эле, Википедияда же байланыштуу долбоорлордо жайгаштырган маалыматыңыздын кандай болбосун өзгөрүшү же жок кылынышы үчүн эч ким жооп бербейт.
 Википедиянын макалаларында айтылып кеткен, колдонулган же үзүндү катары келтирилген соода белгилери, тейлөө жана жамааттык белгилер, дизайнга болгон укук сыяктуу укуктардын баары алардын укук ээлерине таандык. Аларды бул жерде колдонгонуңуз менен, CC-BY-SA жана GFDL лицензияларынын схемасы боюнча Википедия макалаларынын авторлору ойлонуштурган же маалымат алуу максаттан башка максатта колдоно албайсыз. Эгерде башкача шартталбаса, Википедиянын жана Викимедиа фондунун башка сайттарынын мындай укук ээлери менен эч кандай байланышы жок болгондуктан, Википедия автордук укук менен корголгон материалдарды колдонуу укугун тескей албайт. Ушул жана сыяктуу материалдарды өз жоопкерчилигиңиз менен колдоносуз.
 Википедия, адамды аныктоого мүмкүнчүлүк берген материалдарды камтыйт. Ал адамдардын арасында тирүү же жакында көзү өтүп кеткендер бар болушу мүмкүн. Айрым юрисдикцияларда, автордук укук менен корголуп же корголбогонуна карабастан, тирүү же жакында көзү өткөн адамдардын элесин колдонуу инсандын укуктарын жөнгө салган мыйзамдар менен чектелет. Мындай материалдарды колдонуудан мурун, аларды колдоно турган жагдайларда тийиштүү мыйзамдарга ылайык колдонууга болот же болбойт экенин билип алыңыз.  .
 Википедияда жайгашкан маалыматты жайылтуу, сиз турган мамлекеттин мыйзамдарын бузушу мүмкүн. Википедиянын маалымат базасы Америка Кошмо Штаттарында жайгашкан серверлерде сакталып, ошол мамлекеттин жергиликтүү жана федералдык мыйзамдарында каралган чаралар менен корголот. Өлкөңүздүн мыйзамдары мындай кеп кылууга же жайылтууга жол бербеши мүмкүн. Википедия кандайдыр бир мыйзам бузулууларды үндөбөйт жана ушул сайтка шилтемелерди берилгени же ушул сайттагы маалыматты колдонулуушу же жайылтылышы менен мыйзамдардын бузулганы үчүн жооп бере албайт.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: Enter a page name to see changes on pages linked to or from that page. (To see members of a category, enter Category:Name of category).   See more at  .


URL: https://gd.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uicipeid:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the  ; neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://ku.wikipedia.org/wiki/W%C3%AEk%C3%AEpediya:Ferexetname

Content: Ev malpera ji   tê wêşandin, qedykirî li cem   di bin nimrê  . Weqfa Wikimedia di bi heqên heremê   di DYE da ye. "Serokî" vê weqfê di bin rûpelê   kane were dîtin. Niha ew kesa   e.
 Ji bo pirsan ya xastinên interview'an bi kesên (bikarhênerên) Wîkîpediyayê kurdî ra, hûn dikarin di rûpelê   înformasyonan ji xwe ra derxin û e-nameyan bişînin.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:WhatLinksHere/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: The following pages link to    
 Showing 50 items.


URL: https://fur.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vichipedie:General_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://ht.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedya:Av%C3%A8tisman_jeneral

Content: Wikipedya se yon sit entènèt ki ofri yon ansiklopedi kolaboratif ki gen kontni anba "lisans gratis". Wikipedya alimante ak yon asosyasyon moun volontè ak gwoup k ap travay ki vle bati ansanm yon resous konplè nan konesans moun. Estrikti pwojè sa a menm  pèmèt nenpòt moun ki gen yon koneksyon entènèt modifye kontni li yo. Se konsa, ou dwe konnen ke se pa tout bagay isit la ke moun ki gen ekspètiz ladan l analize pou ba ou enfòmasyon konplè, egzat ak serye.
 Sa pa vle di tou ke ou pa pral jwenn enfòmasyon egzat ak valab sou Wikipedya. Kèk tan w ap jwenn. Sepandan, Wikipedya pa garanti validite, presizyon, konplè oswa enpòtans enfòmasyon ki sou sit li a. Kontni chak atik gen dwa te modifye, vandalize oswa chanje pa yon moun ki gen opinyon ki pa koresponn ak eta konesans nan domèn konsène yo, oswa ak netralite ki nesesè.
 Kominote ki asosye ak Wikipedya toujou ap chèche chwazi epi pote vèsyon ki fyab nan atik yo. Pou fè sa, li sèvi ak zouti tankou  , paj swiv ak   pou kontwole evolisyon kontni aktyèl la ak chanjman li yo. Sepandan, Wikipedya pa revize kanmarad yo. Nenpòt lektè ka korije erè oswa patisipe nan yon  , men lektè sa yo pa gen okenn obligasyon legal pou yo fè sa, e se poutèt sa tout enfòmasyon ki isit yo pa garanti okenn fyabilite pou okenn rezon oswa itilizasyon. Menm atik ki te verifye pa yon revizyon parèy enfòmèl oswa otorize atravè yon pwosesis ki mennen nan yon  , Lè sa a, yo te kapab modifye yon fason ki pa apwopriye jis anvan ou te edite yo. Se poutèt sa li rekòmande pou toujou kenbe yon   atik yo.
 Kontni ki pwopoze la yo gratis, san okenn obligasyon ni isit ni  lòtbò, epi pa gen okenn kalite akò oswa kontra ki etabli ant ou menm ak pwopriyetè yo oswa itilizatè yo sou sit sa a, mèt sèvè k ap jere yo a, kontribitè endividyèl Wikipedya, nenpòt ki moun. administratè pwojè yo, biwokrat yo, devlopè yo, administratè sistèm yo, oswa nenpòt lòt moun ki "konekte nenpòt fason" ak pwojè sa a oswa nenpòt lòt ti pwojè moun ki ka sijè a plent dirèk ou yo.
 Ou gen yon lisans limite pou kopye tout oswa yon pati nan kontni sit sa a; sa pa kreye oswa vle di okenn responsablite kontra oswa ekstra-kontra ak Wikipedya oswa nenpòt nan ajan li yo, manm, òganizatè, patisipan yo, oswa lòt itilizatè.
Pa gen   konsènan itilizasyon oswa modifikasyon enfòmasyon sa yo pi lwen pase Lisans Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported  . Menm jan an tou, si yon moun ta chanje, modifye, modifye oswa efase nenpòt enfòmasyon ou ta mete sou Wikipedya oswa nenpòt nan pwojè ki gen rapò ak li yo, "pa gen moun ki responsab sou Wikipedya sèlman moun ki fè chanjman yo.
 Mak komèsyal, mak sèvis, mak kolektif, dwa konsepsyon, dwa pèsonalite oswa dwa menm ki sanble jan yo mansyone yo, itilize oswa site nan atik Wikipedya yo se e yo rete zafè pwopriyetè respektif yo. Itilizasyon yo isit la pa vle di ke ou ta ka sèvi ak yo pou nenpòt lòt bagay ke enfòmasyon (oswa rezon ki sanble) jan otè orijinal yo nan atik Wikipedya sa yo te vle di anba Lisans Creative Commons BY-SA-3.0. Sòf si yo espesifye otreman, Wikimedya ak sit Wikimedya yo pa andose oswa afilye ak okenn nan moun ki gen dwa yo, e kòm sa yo, yo pa kapab bay Wikipedya okenn lisans pou itilize nenpòt materyèl ki pwoteje pa dwa sa yo. Itilizasyon ou menm dwa sa yo, oswa lòt pwopriyete entanjib sa yo, se sèlman sou pwòp risk ou.
 Piblikasyon enfòmasyon ki sou Wikipedya ka pa konfòme ak lwa aplikab nan peyi kote w ap gade enfòmasyon sa a. Baz done Wikipedya a estoke sou yon sèvè nan Eta   nan  , epi operasyon li an konfòm ak lwa lokal ak federal Ozetazini. Wikipedya pa adrese okenn peyi an patikilye. Lwa ki aplikab nan peyi w gen dwa pa pèmèt pwoteksyon sa a, oswa yo ka pa pèmèt piblikasyon oswa distribisyon diskou sa a. Wikipedya pa ankouraje okenn vyolasyon lwa a epi yo pa kapab responsab okenn vyolasyon nenpòt lwa, kit se paske ou gen rapò ak domèn sa a oswa kit ou itlize, repwodui oswa repibliye enfòmasyon ki nan sit sa a.
 Si w bezwen konsèy espesifik (egzanp medikal, legal, finansye oswa jesyon risk), tanpri konsilte yon pwofesyonèl ki konpetan oswa ki konnen ki gen konesans nan domèn sa a.


URL: https://vls.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Aansprakelekeid

Content: Ier stoan de zogenoamde   en ander juridische tekstn.
 De Wikipedia es een gemêenschapsproject dat gemakt wordt door e hêel verscheidn publiek.
Foutn wordn normoal geziene zêre gecorrigeerd ma mocht je toch ieverst 'n twuk zien da nie hêel juste es, meugt ge da alsan laatn weetn ip het  -blad die by het betreffnde artikel hôort.
 Ge meugt het ôok alsan zelve verandern in 't artikel.
 De vrywilligers die meewerkn an den encyclopedie ('t publiek, dus ôok gyzelve) aanveirdn   vo de justeid van d'artikels. De informatie die ier te vindn es, is hêlegans gratis en vry, moa wel te gebruukn ip eigen risico.
 Een oantal gebrukers (de zogenaamde  ) ein extra meuglikeedn ip technisch niveau. Zudder kunn bloadn beveiligen, wegdoene en de schryfrechtn van gebrukers anpassen, meuglikeedn die geweune gebrukers nie ein.
Deze groep vrywilligers zyn niet de eigenoars of webmasters van Wikipedia, 't zyn êerder de gastn die instaan vo het ounderoud.
 Ip juridisch vlak ein gebrukers (anonieme, geweune en sysops) gin aansprakelikeid, allêne de eigenoare van Wikipedia, de  , es de eindverantwoordelikke. 
 Mocht er een probleem zyn, pakt dan êest contact ip met vls.wikipedia (byvôorbeeld êen van de sysops). 
Ge kunt ôok e klacht verzenden, in 't Iengels, noa:
 Olle tekst, ofbeeldingn en andere media volt ounder de  -licentie.
 Zie  .


URL: https://inh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8:%D0%91%D0%B5%D1%85%D0%BA%D1%82%D0%BE%D0%BA%D1%85%D0%B0%D0%BC_%D1%82%D3%80%D0%B0%D1%86%D0%B0%D1%8D%D1%86%D0%B0%D1%80

Content: ,  -энциклопеди къайладоацача чударца — шоай лоӀамца вӀашагӀкхийттача наьх юкъарло я, адамий ховраш гулдеш. Цо могадайта Дуненмазáи  áи тӀакхача йиш йолча сагага цун чулоацам хувца. Цу бахьане, боккъал, оаша теркам бе укхаза доаладаь дараш (ховраш) бокъонца ховш болча Ӏилманхоша тешшаме техканза хила мегаш долга.
 Харцахьа хургда Википеде чу кхы дукха пайдане хоам бац аьлча, цхьабакъда оаша кхетаде деза,   МоллагӀа йола статья ешача хана, из шо еша дӀадолалехьа хийца хила мег, е толхаяь хила мег, е массане тӀаийцачунна духьал волчо язъяь хила мег.
 Тхо тохкаш да, тешам дукхагӀа болча статьяй эршаш лоръю оаха, амма тха вӀаштехьа дац гаранти яла. МоллагӀа йола статья шо еша дӀадолалехьа хийца а толхаяь а хила мег.


URL: https://fo.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://kw.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: po vershyon yn neb tavos arall.


URL: https://inh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8:%D0%91%D0%B5%D1%85%D0%BA%D1%82%D0%BE%D0%BA%D1%85%D0%B0%D0%BC_%D1%82%D3%80%D0%B0%D1%86%D0%B0%D1%8D%D1%86%D0%B0%D1%80

Content: ,  -энциклопеди къайладоацача чударца — шоай лоӀамца вӀашагӀкхийттача наьх юкъарло я, адамий ховраш гулдеш. Цо могадайта Дуненмазáи  áи тӀакхача йиш йолча сагага цун чулоацам хувца. Цу бахьане, боккъал, оаша теркам бе укхаза доаладаь дараш (ховраш) бокъонца ховш болча Ӏилманхоша тешшаме техканза хила мегаш долга.
 Харцахьа хургда Википеде чу кхы дукха пайдане хоам бац аьлча, цхьабакъда оаша кхетаде деза,   МоллагӀа йола статья ешача хана, из шо еша дӀадолалехьа хийца хила мег, е толхаяь хила мег, е массане тӀаийцачунна духьал волчо язъяь хила мег.
 Тхо тохкаш да, тешам дукхагӀа болча статьяй эршаш лоръю оаха, амма тха вӀаштехьа дац гаранти яла. МоллагӀа йола статья шо еша дӀадолалехьа хийца а толхаяь а хила мег.


URL: https://gan.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:%E5%85%8D%E8%B2%AC%E8%81%B2%E6%98%8E

Content: 維基百科係網上內容公開嗰一部合作百科全書，係發展人類同享知識嗰志願組織。 箇項計劃嗰結構讓任何上到互聯網嗰人修改佢嗰內容。 請倷明白：箇首冇什哩真嗰係拕專業人士審過嗰；東西未必完備、準或者可靠。
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.  However,    The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.
 We are working on ways to select and highlight reliable versions of articles.  Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content.  However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever.  Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 倷=== 冇合同；有限嗰牌照 / No contract; limited license ===
Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://sw.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Kanusho_kwa_jumla

Content: Tango (Cucumis sativus) ni mimea iliyopandwa sana katika familia ya chumvi, Cucurbitaceae. Ni mzabibu unaozaa ambayo huzaa matunda mazuri ambayo hutumiwa kama mboga. Kuna aina tatu kuu za tango: kupunja, pickling, na mbegu. Ndani ya aina hizi, mbegu kadhaa zimeundwa. Nchini Amerika ya Kaskazini, neno "tango la mwitu" linamaanisha mimea katika kijiografia Echinocystis na Marah, lakini haya hayahusiana. Tango ni asili kutoka Asia ya Kusini, lakini sasa inakua katika mabara mengi. Aina nyingi za tango zinatumiwa kwenye soko la kimataifa.
 Yaliyomo
 Maelezo
 Tango ni mizabibu ya mizabibu ambayo ni mizizi katika ardhi na inakua mazao au vifungo vingine vya kuunga mkono, kufunika karibu na sambamba na tete nyembamba, za kutunga. Kiwanda kinaweza pia kuimarisha katikati ya kivuli na kitapungua chini ikiwa haina mkono. Mzabibu una majani makubwa yanayotengeneza mamba juu ya matunda. Matunda ya mboga ya kawaida ya tango ni takriban cylindrical, lakini hutolewa na mwisho wa tapered, na inaweza kuwa kubwa kama sentimita 60 (24 in) mrefu na sentimita 10 (3.9 in) mduara. [Citation] Inahitajika kuzungumza, tango ni Iliyowekwa kama pepo, aina ya berry ya mimea yenye punda ngumu ya nje na hakuna mgawanyiko wa ndani. Mengi kama nyanya na boga, mara nyingi huelewa, hutayarishwa na kuliwa kama mboga. Matunda ya tango mara nyingi zaidi ya 90% ya maji. [Citation inahitajika]
Maua na uchafuzi
 Mbegu chache za tango ni sehemu ya sherehe, maua huunda matunda yasiyo na mbegu bila uchafuzi. Uchafuzi wa mashamba haya huharibika ubora. Nchini Marekani, hizi hupandwa kwa kawaida katika maeneo ya kijani, ambapo nyuki hutolewa. Katika Ulaya, wao ni mzima nje katika mikoa fulani, na nyuki hutolewa kutoka maeneo haya.
 Magogo mengi ya tango, hata hivyo, yana mimea na yanahitaji kupamba rangi. Maelfu ya mizinga ya nyuki za nyuki hutolewa kila mwaka kwa mashamba ya tango kabla ya kupasuka kwa kusudi hili. Matango pia yanaweza kupikwa na blubebees na aina nyingine za nyuki. Matango mengi ambayo yanahitaji kupamba rangi ni ya kutofautiana, hivyo poleni kutoka kwenye mmea tofauti inahitajika kuunda mbegu na matunda. [1] Kuna baadhi ya cultivars zinazohusika na zinazohusiana na kilimo cha 'Lemon'. [1] Dalili za uchafuzi wa kutosha ni pamoja na mimba ya matunda na matunda mabaya. Maua ya rangi ya mviringo yanaweza kuzalisha matunda ambayo ni ya kijani na kuendeleza kawaida karibu na mwisho wa shina, lakini ni rangi ya njano na imeharibika katika mwisho wa maua.
 Kilimo cha jadi huzalisha maua ya kiume kwanza, kisha kike, katika idadi sawa. Magugu yaliyo karibu zaidi ya gynoecious huzalisha maua yote ya kike. Wanaweza kuwa na mimea ya pollenizer iliyoingizwa, na idadi ya nyuki kwa eneo la kitengo imeongezeka, lakini mabadiliko ya joto hushawishi maua ya kiume hata kwenye mimea hii, ambayo inaweza kuwa ya kutosha kwa ajili ya kupitisha mishipa kutokea. [1]
Maelezo ya Genomic ID ya genome ya NCBI 1639
Ploidy diploid
Ukubwa wa aina ya 323.99 Mb
Mitochondrion ya chombo iliyopangwa
Ukubwa wa viungo 244.82 Mb
Mwaka wa kukamilisha 2011
Genome
 Mnamo mwaka 2009, timu ya watafiti ya kimataifa ilitangaza kwamba walikuwa wametenganisha genome ya tango. [2]
Uzalishaji
Wazalishaji wa tano juu ya tango mwaka 2013
Uzalishaji wa Nchi, mamilioni ya tani
China 54.3
Uturuki 1.8
Iran 1.6
Urusi 1.1
Ukraine 1.0
Dunia 71,365,573
Chanzo: Shirika la Chakula na Kilimo (FAOSTAT) [3]
 Kulingana na Shirika la Chakula na Kilimo la Umoja wa Mataifa kwa tango na uzalishaji wa gherkin mwaka 2013, China ilizalisha 76% ya pato la kimataifa, ikifuatiwa na Uturuki, Iran, Urusi na Ukraine (meza).
Lishe
Tango, na peel, ghafi Thamani ya lishe kwa 100 g (3.5 oz)
Nishati 65 kJ (kcal 16)
Karodi
 3.63 g
Sugars 1.67
Fiber ya vyakula 0.5 g
Mafuta
 0.11 g
Protini
 0.65 g
Vitamini
Thiamine (B1)
(2%)
0.027 mg
Riboflavin (B2)
(3%)
0.033 mg
Niacin (B3)
(1%)
0.098 mg
Pantothenic asidi (B5)
(5%)
0.259 mg
Vitamini B6
(3%)
0.04 mg
Folate (B9)
(2%)
7 μg
Vitamini C
(3%)
2.8 mg
Vitamini K
(16%)
16.4 μg
Madini
Calcium 0.65 g
Vitamini
Thiamine (B1)
(2%)
0.027 mg
Riboflavin (B2)
(3%)
0.033 mg
Niacin (B3)
(1%)
0.098 mg
Pantothenic asidi (B5)
(5%)
0.259 mg
Vitamini B6
(3%)
0.04 mg
Folate (B9)
(2%)
7 μg
Vitamini C
(3%)
2.8 mg
Vitamini K
(16%)
16.4 μg
Madini
Calcium
(2%)
16 mg
Iron
(2%)
0.28 mg
Magnésiamu
(4%)
13 mg
Manganese
(4%)
0.079 mg
Phosphorus
(3%)
24 mg
Potasiamu
(3%)
147 mg
Sodiamu
(0%)
2 mg
Zinc
(2%)
0.2 mg
Wilaya wengine
Maji 95.23 g
Fluoride 1.3 μg
Unganisha kuingia kwa database ya USDA
 Asilimia ni karibu takriban kutumia mapendekezo ya Marekani kwa watu wazima.
 Katika huduma ya gramu 100, tango ghafi (na peel) ni maji ya 95%, hutoa kilojouli 67 (kilocalories 16) na hutoa maudhui ya chini ya virutubisho muhimu, kwa sababu inaonekana tu kwa vitamini K kwa asilimia 16 ya Thamani ya Kila siku (meza ).
Aina
Angalia pia: Orodha ya aina ya tango
 Katika kilimo cha kawaida, matango yanawekwa katika makundi matatu makuu ya kulima: "kupamba", "pickling", na "bila".
Kutafuta
Matango ya kukata
 Matango yaliyopandwa kula chakula huitwa matango ya slicing. Aina kuu za slicers hupandwa kwenye mizabibu na majani makubwa ambayo hutoa shading. [4] Wao hutumiwa hasa katika fomu isiyo ya rangi ya kijani, kwani fomu ya njano iliyoiva huwa kawaida na machungu. Vipande vilivyopandwa kwa kibiashara kwa soko la Amerika ya Kaskazini kwa kawaida ni zaidi, laini, sare zaidi katika rangi, na kuwa na ngozi kali zaidi. Slicers katika nchi nyingine ni ndogo na huwa na ngozi nyembamba, zaidi ya maridadi. Tango ndogo za kukata pia zinaweza kuchujwa.
Pickling
Matango ya Pickling
Makala kuu: Tango za Pickled
 Matango yanaweza kuchujwa kwa ladha na maisha zaidi ya rafu. Ingawa tango lolote linaweza kuchujwa, vifuniko vya biashara hufanywa kutoka kwa matango husingiwa kwa uwiano wa uwiano wa urefu na upepo na ukosefu wa voids katika mwili. Matango hayo yaliyotajwa kwa pickling, inayoitwa picklers, kukua hadi 7 hadi 10 cm (3 hadi 4 in) kwa muda mrefu na 2.5 cm (1 in) pana. Ikilinganishwa na slicers, picklers huwa na muda mfupi, mzito, chini ya umbo mara kwa mara, na huwa na ngozi nyekundu yenye vidogo vidogo vyenye nyeupe au nyeusi. Hazijawahi kushikamana. Rangi inaweza kutofautiana na rangi ya njano au rangi ya kijani. Matango ya Pickling wakati mwingine huuzwa safi kama matango ya "Kirby" au "Uhuru". Matango yaliyochapwa yanachapishwa kwenye brine au mchanganyiko wa siki na brine, ingawa si siki peke yake, mara kwa mara pamoja na viungo mbalimbali. Matango yaliyochaguliwa huitwa "pickles" nchini Marekani au "gherkins" au "mviringo" huko Uingereza, jina la mwisho lililokuwa la kawaida zaidi kaskazini mwa Uingereza na London, ambako linamaanisha matango makubwa ya siki iliyokatwa kwa kawaida katika samaki Na maduka ya chip.
Burupu
Sio kuchanganyikiwa na Mbegu za Burpe.
Tango la Isfahan lenye burpless awali kutoka Iran
 Tango zisizopigwa na matunda ni nzuri na zina ngozi nyembamba kuliko aina nyingine za tango, na zinajulikana kuwa rahisi kuponda na kuwa na ladha nzuri. Wanaweza kukua kwa muda mrefu kama meta mbili (0.61 m). Wao ni karibu bila mbegu, na wana ngozi nyeti. Mara nyingi hupandwa katika vitalu vya kijani, matango haya ya parthenocarpic mara nyingi hupatikana katika masoko ya mboga, hupunguka kwa plastiki. Wakati mwingine huchangiwa kama wasio na mbegu au wasio na burudani, kwa sababu mbegu na ngozi ya aina nyingine za matango zinasemekana kuwapa watu gesi. [5]
 Aina nyingine za cultivar zinauzwa kibiashara:
'Dosakai' ni turu, njano, tango kuonekana kwenye soko huko Guntur, India
 Rom na ladha
 Watu wengi huripoti harufu nzuri, karibu na maji ya harufu ya melon na ladha ya matango kutokana na misombo inayoitwa (E, Z) -nona-2,6-dienal, (Z) -2-nonenal na (E) -2-nonenal. [9] Tamu ya uchungu kidogo ya matango hutokea kwa cucurbitacins. [10]
Historia ya kilimo
 Matango yaliyotokea India, ambapo aina nyingi nyingi zimezingatiwa, [11] [12] [13] kutoka Cucumis hystrix. [11] [14] Imekuwa ikipandwa kwa angalau miaka 3,000, na labda ililetwa kwa sehemu nyingine za Ulaya na Wagiriki au Warumi. Kumbukumbu za kilimo cha tango huonekana nchini Ufaransa katika karne ya 9, England katika karne ya 14, na katika Amerika Kaskazini na katikati ya karne ya 16.
Kilimo cha awali
Tango ya njano ya Hindi
 Tango zimeorodheshwa kati ya vyakula vya Uri ya zamani, na hadithi ya Gilgamesh inaelezea watu wanaokula matango. [Vyanzo vingine] Vyanzo vingine [nani?] Pia wanasema kuwa ilitolewa katika kale ya Thrace, na kwa hakika ni sehemu ya vyakula vya kisasa nchini Bulgaria Na Uturuki, sehemu ambazo hufanya hali hiyo ya kale. Matango yanasemwa katika Biblia kama moja ya vyakula ambavyo Waisraeli walipokuliwa huko Misri. [15] Kutoka India, imeenea kwa Ugiriki (ambako ilikuwa inaitwa "σίκυον", síkyon) na Italia (ambapo Warumi walipenda sana mazao), na baadaye nchini China.
 Robert Daniel, akizungumza juu ya nusu ya pili ya karne ya tatu AD, ameamua kutambua neno lisilojulikana, ολγιττα, na al-qitta ya Kiarabu, neno la kawaida kwa tango. [16]
 Kulingana na Pliny Mzee (The Natural History, Kitabu XIX, Sura ya 23), Wagiriki wa kale walikua matango, na kulikuwa na aina tofauti katika Italia, Afrika, na Moesia.
Dola ya Kirumi
 Kulingana na Pliny, Mfalme Tiberius alikuwa na tango kwenye meza yake kila siku wakati wa majira ya joto na baridi. Warumi iliripotiwa kutumika mbinu za bandia (sawa na mfumo wa chafu) za kuongezeka kuwa na inapatikana kwa meza yake kila siku ya mwaka. "Kwa hakika, hakuwa na bila ya hayo, kwa kuwa alikuwa ameinua vitanda vilivyofanywa kwa muafaka juu ya magurudumu, kwa njia ambayo matango yalihamia na kufunuliwa kwa joto kamili la jua, wakati, wakati wa baridi, waliondolewa, na kuwekwa chini ya Ulinzi wa frames glazed na 'mirrorstone'. "[17] 'Mirrorstone' ni tafsiri halisi ya Pliny's 'lapis specularis', inaaminika kuwa ni mica ya karatasi.
 Inasema, pia walikulima katika nyumba za tango ambazo zimefunikwa na kitambaa cha mafuta kilichojulikana kama "specularia". [18]
 Pliny Mzee anaelezea matunda ya Kiitaliano kama mdogo sana, labda kama gherkin, akielezea kama tango ya mwitu mno mdogo kuliko yale yaliyopandwa. Pliny pia anaelezea maandalizi ya dawa inayojulikana kama elaterium, ingawa baadhi ya wasomi [ambao?] Wanaamini alikuwa akimaanisha Ecballium elaterium, inayojulikana katika nyakati za awali za Linnean kama "Cucumis silvestris" au "Cucumis asininus" ("tango za mwitu" au " Tango tunda "), aina tofauti na matango ya kawaida. [19] Pliny pia anaandika juu ya aina nyingine kadhaa ya tango, ikiwa ni pamoja na tango zilizolima, [20] na tiba kutoka kwa aina tofauti (9 kutoka kwa kulimwa, 5 kutoka "anguine", na 26 kutoka "mwitu"). Warumi wanasemekana kuwa wametumia matango ya kutibu maumivu ya kupigwa, macho mabaya, na kutisha panya. Wanawake wanaotamani kwa watoto walivaa viuno vyao. Walipelekwa pia na wajukuu, na kutupwa mbali wakati mtoto alizaliwa


URL: https://war.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 
  -   -   -   -  
 WARAY GINHAHATAG NGA GARANTIYA HAN WIKIPEDIA HIN PAGKAHINGPIT HAN SULOD DINHE.
 An   usa nga onlayn nga buklad-hin-sulod nga ensayklopediya, nga buot sidngon, usa nga boluntaryo nga pagkatitirok hin mga tawo ngan grupo nga naghihimo hin kuruhaan hin hibaro hin katawhan para ha ngatanan.  An kahimo hini natugot hin bisan hin-o nga konektado ha Internet ngan mayda World Wide Web nga pandalikyat nga magliwat han sulod nga mabibilngan dinhe.  Amo nga alayon pagpasagdon nga waray butang nga mabibilngan dinhe nga masisiring nga ginsubay hin mga propesyonal nga maaram han ispisipiko nga larangan hin kahibaro nga kinahanglan nga matagan ka hin hingpit, sakto o kundi man matataporan nga impormasyon hin bisan ano nga iristoryahon ha  
  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  . 


URL: https://gu.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%AA%B5%E0%AA%BF%E0%AA%95%E0%AA%BF%E0%AA%AA%E0%AB%80%E0%AA%A1%E0%AA%BF%E0%AA%AF%E0%AA%BE:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate, or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will. However,   The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized, or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works  .
 Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content. However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever. Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops, or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers, or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC-BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify, or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, or similar rights that are mentioned, used, or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated, Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by, nor affiliated with, any of the holders of any such rights, and as such, Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or recently-deceased. The use of images of living or recently-deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.  
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution. Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain, or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management), please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://gd.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uicipeid:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the  ; neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://ka.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E1%83%95%E1%83%98%E1%83%99%E1%83%98%E1%83%9E%E1%83%94%E1%83%93%E1%83%98%E1%83%90:%E1%83%9E%E1%83%90%E1%83%A1%E1%83%A3%E1%83%AE%E1%83%98%E1%83%A1%E1%83%9B%E1%83%92%E1%83%94%E1%83%91%E1%83%9A%E1%83%9D%E1%83%91%E1%83%98%E1%83%A1_%E1%83%A3%E1%83%90%E1%83%A0%E1%83%A7%E1%83%9D%E1%83%A4%E1%83%90

Content: ,  -  თავისუფალი შიგთავსით, არის მოხალისე  პიროვნებათა და ჯგუფთა საზოგადოება, რომლებიც ქმნიან კაცობრიობის ცოდნის საერთო საცავს.  მისი სტრუქტურიდან გამომდინარე ვიკიპედიის რედაქტირება   და   მქონე ნებისმიერ პიროვნებას შეუძლია. აქედან გამომდინარე, გთხოვთ გაითვალისწინოთ, რომ მოყვანილი ინფორმაცია შესაძლოა არ იყოს გადამოწმებული პროფესიონალთა მიერ. 
 არ შეიძლება იმის თქმა, რომ ვიკიპედიაში არ არის ზუსტი და საჭირო ინფორმაცია, თუმცა თქვენ უნდა გაითვალისწინოთ, რომ    არ არის გამორიცხული, რომ თქვენთვის საინტერესო ინფორმაცია იყო შეცვლილი, გაფუჭებული ან დაწერილი იმ პიროვნების მიერ, რომლის მოსაზრება განსხვავდება ზოგადად მიღებული მოსაზრებისგან. 
 ჩვენ ყოველთვის ვეძებთ მაქსიმალურად სწორი და გამართული სტატიების შემოწმებისა და გამორჩევის გზებს.  ჩვენი უდიდესი მიღწევაა   , თუმცა ისინიც კი შესაძლოა გააფუჭეს რამდენიმე წამის წინ სანამ თქვენ წაიკითხავდით.  
 გთხოვთ გაითვალისწინოთ, რომ ინფორმაცია, რომელსაც აქ იხილავთ, განთავსებულია თავისუფლად, როგორც კეთილი სურვილის გამოვლენა. ინფორმაციის მიმწოდებლებსა და ვიკიპედიის მფლობელებს, ადმინისტრატორებს, ოპერატორებს  ან   და მკითხველებს შორის არ არის გაფორმებული არანაირი ხელშეკრულება. აქედან გამომდინარე, ვიკიპედიის შიგთავსი ვერ გახდება იურიდიული პრეტენზიების საკითხი. თქვენ გაქვთ ვიკიპედიის კოპირების უფლება, თუმცა არც ეს გულისხმობს რაიმე იურიდიულ პასუხისმგებლობას - თქვენ იყენებთ ინფორმაციას საკუთარი სურვილით.
 ნებისმიერი სავაჭრო ნიშანი, მარკები, ორგანიზაციების, ნივთების სახელები, დიზაინი და ვიკიპედიაში გამოყენებეულ სხვა არათავისუფალი ინფორმაციაზე საავტორო უფლებებს ფლობენ მათი კანონიერი მფლობელები. ვიკიპედიის შინაარსი ვრცელდება   ლიცენზიით, და თქვენ შეგიძლიათ მისი გამოყენება მხოლოდ ამ ლიცენზიის პირობების თანახმად. გახსოვდეთ, რომ თქვენ  
 გთხოვთ ასევე გაითვალისწინოთ, რომ ზოგი ვიკიპედია განლაგებულია   ( ) და ემორჩილება ამერიკის კანონმდებლობას. თქვენი ქვეყნის კანონებმა შესაძლოა არ განსაზღვრონ სიტყვის თავისუფლება ისე ფართოდ, როგორც ამერიკის კანონმდებლობამ და    .
 , რადგანაც არის დამოუკიდებელი თავისუფალი საზოგადოება, შექმნილი საგანმანათლებლო, კულტურული და ინფორმაციული რესურსის შესაქმნელად. ინფორმაცია ვიკიპედიაში ვრცელდება   ლიცენზიით.
 გმადლობთ, რომ დახარჯეთ დრო ამ გვერდის წასაკითხად. ვიმედოვნებთ, რომ ვიკიპედია დაგიტოვებთ მხოლოდ კარგ შთაბეჭდილებებს.


URL: https://haw.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:N%C4%81_a%E2%80%98o_%E2%80%98ana_laul%C4%81

Content: E nānā i ka moʻolelo ma   (i ka ʻōlelo Pelekania), ke ʻoluʻolu.


URL: https://ug.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://ga.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vicip%C3%A9id:S%C3%A9anadh_ginear%C3%A1lta

Content: 	
 Ciclipéid saor-ábhair ar líne is ea Vicipéid - .i. cumann deonach de dhaoine aonair agus de ghrúpaí atá ag forbairt acmhainn choitianta de heolas an duine. Ceadaíonn a struchtúr do dhuine ar bith atá le nasc Idirlín agus brabhsálaí an Ghréasáin Dhomhanda aige an ábhar a hathrú. Dá bharr sin, tabhair faoi deara nach gá go léirmheasadh aon rud anseo ag daoine garimiúla atá leis an oilteacht acu eolas  iomlán, cruinn nó iontaofa a thabhairt duit.  
 Ní ionainn é sin agus a rá nach gheobhaidh tú eolas luachmhar cruinn sa Vicipéid, ach ní féidir le Vicipéid bannaí a thabhairt ar bailíocht an eolais atá le fáil anseo. B'fhéidir go raibh sé athraithe, loite nó modhnaithe ag duine a raibh difríocht aige ina thuairim féin faoin eolas. Oibrímid faoi láthair ar meáin chun leagan níos iontaofa de hailt a roghnú agus a chur chun suntais.


URL: https://ks.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%D9%90%DA%A9%DB%8C%D9%96%D9%BE%DB%8C%D9%96%DA%88%DB%8C%D8%A7:%D8%B9%D9%8E%D9%88%D9%B2%D9%85%DB%8C_%D8%A7%D9%90%D8%B8%DB%81%D8%A7%D8%B1%D9%90_%D9%84%D8%A7_%D8%AA%D9%88%D9%84%D9%8F%D9%82%DB%8C

Content: 
 وِکیٖپیٖڈیا چھُ اَکھ آنلایِن رَضاکار، آزاد انسایكلوپیڈیا یَتھ مَنٛز ہَر کانٛہہ ہیٚکہِ اؠڈِٹ کٔرِتھ۔ وِکیٖپیٖڈیاہَس چھُ کانٛہہ تہِ ہیٚکَن تَبدیلی أنِتھ۔ یہِ گَژھِ یاد تھاوُن زِ پرٛتھ کانٛہہ مَضموٗن چھُنہٕ مٲہِر گَشتہٕ کٔرِتھ آسان تہٕ یِمَن مَضموٗنَن مَنٛز ہیٚکہِ غَلَط مَعلوٗمات آسِتھ۔
 اَمیُٛک مَطلَب چھُنہٕ زِ وِکیٖپیٖڈیاہَس پؠٹھ چھُ خألی غلط مولوٗماتھ آسان بٔلکہِ چھُ وِکیٖپیٖڈیاہَس پؠٹھ واریاہ اَصٕل مولوٗماتھ تہِ دَسیاب۔ کُنہِ تہِ مَضموٗنُک مَواد ہیٚکہِ بَدلاونہٕ آمُت، خَراب کَرنہٕ 
یا آمُت۔


URL: https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/%EC%9C%84%ED%82%A4%EB%B0%B1%EA%B3%BC:%EB%A9%B4%EC%B1%85_%EC%A1%B0%ED%95%AD

Content: 
 위키백과는 온라인에 의해 내용이 개방되는 백과사전입니다. 다시 말해 위키백과에 참여하는 개인이나 단체는 인간이 창조하고 발견한 지식을 한 곳에 모으는 노력을 함께하고 있습니다.  과  를 쓸 수 있는 모든 사람은 누구나 위키백과에 참여하여 글을 쓰고 수록된 글을 보충 또는 수정할 수 있습니다. 그러므로 여기에 수록된 개별 분야에 관한 어떠한 글도 전문가에 의해 특별히 검토되지 않기 때문에 어떤 주제에 대해서도 정확하고 또는 신뢰할 수 있는 정보를 제공한다고 볼 수는 없습니다.
 그렇다고 해서 여러분께서 위키백과에서 가치 있고 정확한 정보를 얻을 수 없다는 것을 의미하지는 않습니다.   여기에 수록된 정보는 어느 사람에 의해서든지 조만간 수정되거나 변경 또는 심지어 훼손될 수 있습니다. 그리고 글을 쓴 참여자의 입장이나 의견이 여러분이 관심이 있고 정보를 얻고자 하는 특정 분야의 지적 수준에 부합되지 않을 수도 있습니다.
 작가, 참여자, 후원자, 관리자 혹은 위키백과와 관련된 어떠한 사람도 이 웹사이트의 페이지에 수록된 또는 링크된 정보를 여러분이 사용하는 것에 어떠한 책임도 지지 않습니다. 위키백과가 제공하는 정보는 여러분께서 자유로이 그리고 무료로 사용하신다는 것을 재삼 인식하여야 하며, 따라서 여러분과 이 웹사이트의 소유자 또는 특정 사용자 사이에서는 어떠한 종류의 허가나 동의 또는 접촉도 불필요합니다. 이 웹사이트가 등록된 서버의 소유자, 개별 참여자, 관리자 혹은 이 프로젝트 또는 자매 프로젝트와 관련된 어느 사람도 여러분의 직접적 항의로부터 유보됩니다. 여러분은 이 웹사이트에 수록된 내용을  에 따라 제한적으로 복사할 수 있으며 이를 필요에 따라 임의로 사용할 수 있습니다.
 위키백과에 사용 또는 인용된 등록상표, 서비스표식, 조합표식, 디자인권, 개별권 혹은 이와 유사한 권리 등은 해당 유동재산의 소유자의 권리에 속합니다. 위키백과에 글을 쓴 참여자가  의 보호를 받고 있을 수도 있는 이와 같은 종류의 유동재산을 사용하였을 때 이는  에 규정된 이와 관련된 내용 이외의 다른 목적으로 여러분이 사용할 수 있다는 것을 의미하지 않습니다. 위키백과 그리고 위키미디어의 웹사이트는 별도로 언급하지 않는 한 (이를테면   혹은  ) 저작권과 직접 혹은 간접적으로 관련된 사항을 확인해 드리지 않습니다.
 위키백과는 저작권의 보호를 받고 있는 자료가 수록되지 않도록 각별한 주의를 하지만, 때에 따라서는 저작권에 저촉된 내용이 위키백과의 문서에 수록되어 있을 수도 있습니다. 만일 여러분께서 이를 모르고 사용하였을 경우에 따르는 법적 문제는 전적으로 여러분 자신이 책임을 지게 됩니다.
 위키백과에 수록된 정보는 여러분이 현재 위치하고 있는 국가의 법에 저촉될 수도 있습니다. 여러분이 위치한 국가의 법은  의 법 또는  의 원칙에 따른 표현의 자유 보장을 넓은 의미에서 인정하지 않을 수도 있습니다. 위키백과는 여러분이 위키백과에 링크함으로써 혹은 여기에 포함된 어떤 정보를 사용함으로써 생길 수도 있는 법적 위반에 대해 어떠한 책임도 지지 않습니다.
 만일 여러분께서 특별한 분야(이를테면 의료, 법, 경제)에 조언이 필요할 경우, 이 분야의 전문가를 찾기를 권장합니다.


URL: https://fiu-vro.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Hoiatuisi

Content:  
 Tast lövvät mynõq  


URL: https://gl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Advertencia_xeral

Content: A Wikipedia é unha enciclopedia colaborativa en liña e de contido aberto, isto é, unha asociación voluntaria de individuos e grupos que están a desenvolver un recurso común e aberto do coñecemento humano. A estrutura do proxecto permite que calquera cunha conexión á internet poida altera-lo seu contido. Está avisado de que nada do que atope aquí tivo por que ser necesariamente revisado por profesionais ou expertos que lle garantan unha información fiable, precisa e completa.
 Isto non quere dicir que non haxa información valiosa e precisa na Wikipedia; encontraraa a meirande parte do tempo. Non obstante,  . O contido de calquera artigo que procure puido ser trocado, vandalizado ou alterado recentemente por alguén cuxa opinión non coincida co coñecemento aceptado nesa área concreta. Saiba tamén que outras moitas enciclopedias e traballos de referencia teñen tamén  .
 Estamos traballando no xeito de seleccionar e destacar versións fiables de artigos. A nosa comunidade activa de editores usa ferramentas como   e   que axudan a facer un seguimento do novo contido e dos cambios que se producen. Malia todo isto, a Wikipedia non está uniformemente revisada de xeito minucioso; namentres que os lectores poden corrixi-los erros ou facer algunha revisión puntual, non teñen a obriga legal de facelo e, deste modo, a información lida aquí carece de ningunha garantía ou pode non axustarse a ningún propósito ou uso, o que sexa. Mesmo artigos que recibiran unha revisión informal ou marcados como   poden ter sido modificados máis tarde de xeito inapropiado, xusto antes de que vostede fose velos.
 
 Por favor, teña claro que a información subministrada aquí está sendo proporcionada de xeito libre, e que este tipo de acordo ou contrato faise entre vostede e os propietarios ou usuarios deste sitio, propietarios dos servidores nos que está aloxado, contribuíntes individuais da Wikipedia, calquera administrador do proxecto ou calquera que estea   con este proxecto ou con algún dos proxectos irmáns. A vostede garánteselle a licenza limitada de copiar calquera contido deste sitio; isto non implica ou crea ningunha ligazón contractual ou extracontractual por parte da Wikipedia ou calquera dos seus axentes, membros, organizadores ou outros usuarios.
 Non existe   respecto ó seu uso ou modificación desta información máis aló da   (CC-BY-SA) e a   (GFDL); nin ninguén na Wikipedia é responsable dos cambios, edicións, modificacións ou eliminacións de ningunha información que vostede poida publicar na Wikipedia ou en calquera dos seus proxectos asociados.
 Calquera das marcas comerciais, marcas de servizo, marcas colectivas, dereitos de deseño ou dereitos semellantes mencionados, usados ou citados nos artigos da Wikipedia son propiedade de seus respectivos donos. O seu uso aquí non implica que vostede poida usalos para calquera outro propósito que non sexa o uso informativo contemplado polos autores orixinais dos artigos desta Wikipedia, baixo os esquemas das licenzas CC-BY-SA e GFDL. Agás que se estableza doutro xeito, a Wikipedia e os sitios da Wikimedia non están afiliados con ningún dos posuidores de calquera destes dereitos que, como tales, non poden garantir ningún dereito de usa-lo material protexido. O uso que faga desta propiedade ou de propiedade similar é baixo o seu propio risco.
 A Wikipedia contén material que pode mostrar o retrato dunha persoa identificable, viva ou recentemente morta. O uso de imaxes de xente viva ou recentemente morta está restrinxido polas leis de imaxe nalgunhas xurisdicións, independentemente do estado dos dereitos de autor. Antes de usar este tipo de contidos, asegúrese de que posúe os dereitos para usalos baixo as leis que se apliquen nas circunstancias do propósito do seu uso.  
 A publicación de información na Wikipedia pode supoñer unha violación das leis do país ou da xurisdición do lugar desde onde está vendo esta información. A base de datos da Wikipedia está almacenada no estado de   nos  , e o seu funcionamento mantense respectando as lexislacións locais e federais. As leis do seu país ou xurisdición poden non protexer ou permitir o mesmo tipo de expresión ou distribución. A Wikipedia non fomenta a vulneración de ningunha lei; e non pode ser responsable de ningunha violación de tales leis. Vostede pode ligar este dominio ou usar, reproducir ou volver publicar a información contida aquí.
 Se necesita algún consello específico (por exemplo, médico, legal, financeiro ou xestión de riscos), por favor, busque un profesional licenciado ou competente nesa área.


URL: https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:Avertissements_g%C3%A9n%C3%A9raux

Content: 
 Wikipédia est un site Web qui propose une encyclopédie collaborative dont le contenu est sous « licence libre ». Wikipédia est alimentée par une association volontaire d'individus et de groupes de travail qui veulent élaborer en commun une ressource complète de la connaissance humaine. La structure même de ce projet permet à toute personne disposant d'une connexion Internet d'en modifier le contenu. Soyez donc bien conscient que tout ce qui se trouve ici n'a pas forcément été examiné par des personnes ayant l'expertise nécessaire pour vous fournir des informations complètes, précises et fiables.
 Cela ne veut pas dire non plus que vous ne trouverez pas de renseignements précis et précieux dans Wikipédia. La plupart du temps, vous en trouverez. Cependant,   Le contenu de chaque article peut avoir été récemment modifié, vandalisé ou altéré par une personne dont l'opinion ne correspond pas avec l'état des connaissances dans les domaines concernés, ou avec la neutralité nécessaire.
 La communauté associée à Wikipédia cherche en permanence à sélectionner et à mettre en lumière des versions fiables des articles. Pour cela, elle utilise des outils comme la page de suivi des   et les   pour surveiller l'évolution des contenus en vigueur et leurs modifications. Cependant, Wikipédia n'est pas uniformément relue par des comités de lecture. N'importe quel lecteur peut corriger des erreurs ou se livrer à une  , mais ces lecteurs n'ont aucune obligation juridique de le faire, et donc toutes les informations lues ici sont sans aucune garantie de fiabilité à toute fin ou utilisation que ce soit. Même des articles qui ont été contrôlés par un comité de lecture informel ou validés par un processus menant à un   peuvent ensuite avoir été modifiés de façon inappropriée, juste avant que vous ne les consultiez. Il convient donc de toujours garder une   des articles.
 Le contenu proposé ici est fourni librement, sans engagement aucun de part et d'autre, et aucun type d'accord ou contrat n'est établi entre vous et les propriétaires ou les utilisateurs de ce site, les propriétaires des serveurs sur lesquels il est logé, les contributeurs individuels de Wikipédia, tout administrateur de projet, les bureaucrates, les développeurs, les administrateurs systèmes ou bien tout autre personne qui n'est   à ce projet ou à des projets fils qui peuvent être soumis à vos réclamations directes.
 Vous disposez d'une licence limitée pour copier tout ou partie du contenu de ce site ; cela ne crée ni ne suppose une responsabilité contractuelle ou extra-contractuelle de la part de Wikipédia ou de l'un de ses agents, membres, organisateurs, participants, ou autres utilisateurs.
 Il n'y a   sur l'utilisation ou la modification de ces informations au-delà de la licence Creative Commons Attribution - Partage dans les Mêmes Conditions 4.0 non transposé . De même, si quelqu'un venait à changer, éditer, modifier ou supprimer toute information que vous pouvez déposer sur Wikipédia ou sur l'un de ses projets associés,  .
 Les marques déposées, marques de service, marques collectives, droits de conception, droits de la personnalité ou droits assimilables qui sont mentionnés, utilisés ou cités dans les articles de Wikipédia sont et restent la propriété de leurs propriétaires respectifs. Leur utilisation n'implique pas ici que vous pourriez les utiliser pour d'autres fins que dans un but d'information (ou un but similaire), tel que prévu par les auteurs originaux de ces articles sur Wikipédia dans le cadre de la licence Creative Commons BY-SA-4.0. Sauf indication contraire, les sites Wikipédia et Wikimédia ne sont ni approuvés ni affiliés à l'un des titulaires de ces droits, et en tant que tel, ne peut accorder à Wikipédia le droit d'utiliser tout matériel protégé par ces droits. Votre utilisation de ces mêmes droits, ou de tel autre bien incorporel similaire, n'est faite que sous votre propre responsabilité.
 La publication de l'information qui se trouve sur Wikipédia peut ne pas respecter les lois applicables du pays où vous êtes en train de visualiser cette information. La base de données Wikipédia est stockée sur un serveur dans l'État de   aux  , et son fonctionnement respecte les législations locale et fédérale des États-Unis. Wikipédia ne s'adresse à aucun pays en particulier. Il se peut que les lois applicables dans votre pays n'accordent pas une telle protection, ou ne permettent pas la publication ou la distribution de ce type de discours. Wikipédia n'encourage aucune infraction à la loi et ne peut être tenue pour responsable d'aucune infraction vis-à-vis des lois, que ce soit parce que vous établissez un lien avec ce domaine, que vous utilisiez, reproduisiez ou republiiez l'information contenue sur ce site.
 Si vous avez besoin de conseils spécifiques (par exemple médicaux, juridiques, financiers ou de gestion des risques), veuillez consulter un professionnel compétent ou ayant la notoriété de connaissances dans ce domaine.


URL: https://vo.wikipedia.org/wiki/V%C3%BCkiped:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://fo.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://kn.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B2%B5%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%95%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%AA%E0%B3%80%E0%B2%A1%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%AF:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows anyone with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals with the expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
 That's not to say that you won't find valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and highlight more reliable versions of articles.  The closest thing to a formal review system that currently exists are the   and   processes, but even articles that have been vetted by those processes may later have been inappropriately edited just before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the  ; neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at Wikipedia.


URL: https://ee.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content:  enye nunyagbãle si li fãa na amewo katã ƒe zazã, eye wònye ame vovowo kple habɔbɔ vovowo siwo na kpekpeɖeŋu le dɔsia ŋɔŋlɔm le xexeme nunyaŋu godoo. Eƒe nɔnɔme naamɔ amesiame si ateŋu azã   kple   ŋudɔ be wòatrɔ nusiwo le eme. Ne nɔ nyanyame nawò be menye nusianu si le afisia me nunyaladeŋgɔwo kple agbalẽnyalagãwo to be wole eme vavã o.
 Esia melegbɔgblɔm be wòmakpɔ nuveviewo kple nunya vavã le   la dzi o; zigeɖe la, wòakpɔe. Gake   ma ateŋu ado ŋugbe nawò be nusianu si le afisia le eme vavã o. Ɣeaɖewoɣi la, nuŋɔŋlɔa ɖewo ƒe tatawo woatrɔ medidi o, elabena ameaɖe alo nubaɖawɔla ɖe wɔ tɔtrɔa ɖe si mesɔ kple nunyalawo kple agbãlenyalawo le xexeame katã ƒe susuwo o.
 Míele asitrɔm le alesi míatia alo míade dzesi nuŋɔŋlɔwo ƒe tata siwo ŋu ŋugbe le. Míaƒe nuŋlɔlawo zãna dɔwɔnu tɔxea ɖewo abe   kple   tsɔ nɔ ŋkulem ɖe nuyeyewo kple tɔtrɔ yeyeawo ŋu. Habɔbɔa ɖeke meli si toa   la me o; togbɔ be nuxlẽla geɖewo wɔna ɖɔɖɔɖowo alo wotoa nuaɖewo me hã abe  , sea ɖeke meli si na dɔ sia wɔwɔ o. Nuŋɔŋlɔ siwo wotia kpɔ le wome toto megbe hã abe   woteŋu trɔna emegbe elabena ameaɖe vayi wɔ tɔtrɔ vɔ̃ɖia ɖe hafi nevale exlem.
 Taflatse, eme nekɔ na amesiame bena nusiwo katã woŋlɔ ɖe afisia li fãa na amewokatã, eye ŋugbedodoa ɖeke mele wò kpakple afisia ƒe aƒetɔwo kple ezãlawo, amesiwo ƒe mɔwo dzi nuŋɔŋlawo le,   la me nuŋlŋlawo ɖesiaɖe, dɔdzikpɔlawo, sysɔpwo alo amebuba ɖeke si do ƒome kple dɔ sia alo eƒe ƒomedodowo o. Mɔɖeɖea ɖe li be na tsɔ nusianu fãa tso afisia; Esia me fia be gɔmesesea ɖeke li le   kple eƒe dɔwɔlawo kple ezãlawo kpakple wò dome o.
  na nyasiawo zãza alo wotɔtrɔ si mele   (GFDL) mɔɖeɖewo nu o; Ne ameaɖe wɔ tɔtrɔa ɖe le nusiwo neŋlɔ ŋu le   dzi alo woɖe eƒe akpa ɖe la, wòmekpɔ mɔ abu fɔ   alo eƒe ƒomedodoa ɖeke o.
 Dzesi tɔxe (abe  ) siwo  dze le Wikipiɖia la me la nye nutɔwo ŋutɔ tɔ. Woƒe zãzã le afisia mefia be mɔ li na wo ŋudɔ wɔwɔ le goa ɖeke me si to vovo na esiwo woɖe mɔ na le GFDL mɔɖeɖewo te o. Ne wome gblɔe fitaa o la, ekema ƒomedodoa ɖeke mele Wikipiɖia kple Wikimedia kpakple dzesitɔa ɖeke o eyata Wikipiɖia mateŋu aɖe mɔ na ameaɖeke be wòazã nusiwo nutɔwo meɖe mɔ na o la.  
 Ɖewomahĩ   menuwo ɖeɖefia alo woŋɔŋlɔ ada se dzi le dukɔ alo afisi wòle la me.   dɔwo katã le mɔwo dzi le   le   eye wozãa wo le afima ƒe sewo nu. Se siwo le wòƒe dukɔme ƒe mɔɖeɖewo na nusiwo wòateŋu agblɔ alo nusiwo wòateŋu ama na amewo ateŋu ato vovo tso esiawo gbɔ.   me doa ŋuse ameaɖeke be wòa da wo de sewo dzi o eyata ne eda se siawo dzi la, wò ɖeka woa bu fɔe.
 Ne ehiã aɖaŋu na nutɔxea ɖe (le kpɔɖeŋu me, dɔyɔyɔ, sewo, ganyawo) me la, di amesi wɔa dɔ le numa ŋuti. Kpɔ  ,  , and   hã.
 Mieda akpe nawo bena ne gbɔdzi ɖi xlẽ nusiwo le afisia eye míe xɔese be   la zãzã adze ŋuwo.
 Togbɔ be wona agbãlenyalawo kple nusrɔ̃ladeŋgɔwo to nunyagbãle bubwo me hã, yawo hã medo ŋugbe be nusianu le eme vavã o.


URL: https://vi.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Ph%E1%BB%A7_nh%E1%BA%ADn_chung

Content:  là một bách khoa toàn thư trực tuyến với nội dung mở nhờ sự hợp tác giữa rất nhiều người, có nghĩa là một tập thể tình nguyện bao gồm các cá nhân và nhóm người cùng xây dựng một kho kiến thức chung của nhân loại. Cấu trúc của dự án cho phép bất cứ ai chỉ cần kết nối với Internet là đã có thể sửa đổi được nội dung. Vì thế, xin hiểu rằng những gì tìm được ở đây không nhất thiết là đã được những nhà chuyên môn thẩm định nhằm cung cấp cho bạn những thông tin hoàn hảo, chính xác và đáng tin cậy.
 Nói như vậy không có nghĩa là bạn sẽ không tìm thấy những thông tin giá trị và chính xác từ Wikipedia; phần lớn thông tin sẽ là chính xác. Dù vậy,  . Nội dung của bất kỳ bài viết nào đều có thể bị sửa đổi, phá hoại hoặc thay thế bởi những người không thuộc về chuyên môn. Lưu ý rằng hầu hết bách khoa toàn thư và trang tham khảo khác cũng có những lời phủ nhận.
 Cộng đồng thành viên năng động của chúng tôi sử dụng những công cụ như   và   để theo dõi những nội dung mới hoặc vừa thay đổi. Tuy vậy, Wikipedia không được thẩm định chéo một cách nhất quán; tuy độc giả có thể sửa các lỗi sai hoặc bắt tay   một cách tự nhiên, họ không hề bị ràng buộc trách nhiệm pháp lý nào khi làm như vậy và do đó tất cả thông tin đọc được ở đây đều không được đảm bảo sẽ phù hợp cho bất kỳ mục đích nào hoặc hình thức sử dụng như thế nào. Thậm chí những bài viết đã được hiệu đính ở mức độ thẩm định chéo không chính thức hay đã thông qua quy trình   vẫn có thể bị sửa đổi theo cách không thích hợp, có thể là ngay trước khi bạn xem chúng.
 
 Xin hãy chắc chắn là bạn hiểu rằng những thông tin được cung cấp ở đây được cung cấp một cách tự do, và rằng không có bất cứ một thoả ước hay hợp đồng gì được tạo ra giữa bạn và người sở hữu cũng như người sử dụng trang web, người sở hữu các máy chủ chứa nó, từng cá nhân cộng tác viên của Wikipedia, các quản trị viên, bảo quản viên dự án hoặc bất cứ ai có bất kì   gì đến dự này này hoặc các dự án chị em, để bạn có thể trực tiếp kiện họ. Bạn đang được trao một li-xăng có hạn chế để sao chép bất kì thứ gì từ trang web này; nó không tạo ra hoặc hàm ý bất cứ một khế ước hoặc khế ước phụ về trách nhiệm pháp lý cho phía   hoặc bất cứ đại diện, thành viên, thành lập viên hoặc những người dùng khác.
  liên quan đến việc sử dụng và chỉnh sửa thông tin này, theo như   (CC BY-SA) và   (GFDL); không có bất kỳ ai tại Wikipedia chịu trách nhiệm cho việc có ai đó thay, sửa, điều chỉnh hoặc xóa bỏ bất kỳ thông tin nào mà bạn đăng nó lên Wikipedia hoặc bất kỳ dự án đi chung với Wikipedia.
 Bất cứ các thương hiệu, dấu hiệu dịch vụ, dấu hiệu tập thể, quyền thiết kế hoặc các quyền tương tự được đề cập, sử dụng hoặc trích dẫn trong các bài viết của bách khoa toàn thư Wikipedia, đều thuộc về chủ sở hữu tương ứng. Việc sử dụng chúng ở đây không có nghĩa là bạn có thể dùng chúng cho bất cứ mục đích nào khác cách dùng để chuyển tải thông tin y hệt hoặc tương tự với dự tính của tác giả gốc của các bài viết Wikipedia theo hệ thống các giấy phép CC BY-SA và GFDL. Nếu không đề cập khác đi thì các trang Wikipedia và Wikimedia không được bảo trợ hoặc có liên kết với chủ nhân của các bản quyền trên và cũng do đó Wikipedia không thể cho phép bất cứ quyền nào sử dụng các tài liệu đã được bảo hộ. Bạn phải chấp nhận mạo hiểm khi sử dụng các tài sản vô hình như vậy hoặc tương tự như vậy.
 Wikipedia có chứa những thông tin trong đó miêu tả một người cụ thể vẫn còn sống hoặc vừa mới qua đời. Việc sử dụng hình ảnh của các cá nhân đang còn sống hoặc vừa mới mất, trong một số bộ luật, bị luật pháp hạn chế do có liên quan đến  , hoàn toàn độc lập với tình trạng bản quyền của hình ảnh đó. Trước khi sử dụng những loại nội dung này, xin hãy đảm bảo rằng luật pháp cho phép bạn sử dụng chúng theo đúng tình huống mà bạn dự định sử dụng.   
 Việc xuất bản những thông tin tìm thấy tại Wikipedia có thể vi phạm luật pháp của quốc gia hoặc phạm vi tài phán của nơi bạn đang xem thông tin này. Cơ sở dữ liệu của Wikipedia được lưu trữ trong máy chủ đặt tại  , và được duy trì dưới sự bảo hộ của luật pháp liên bang và địa phương. Luật pháp tại quốc gia hoặc địa phương của bạn có thể không bảo hộ hoặc cho phép những loại phát ngôn hoặc phân bổ như vậy. Wikipedia không khuyến khích sự vi phạm bất kỳ luật pháp nào; và không thể chịu trách nhiệm cho bất kỳ sự vi phạm nào như vậy, về việc bạn liên kết đến tên miền này hoặc sử dụng, tái sử dụng, hoặc tái xuất bản thông tin lưu giữ tại đây.
 Nếu bạn cần lời khuyên cụ thể (ví dụ như về y tế, pháp luật, tài chính, hoặc quản lý rủi ro) xin hãy tìm một chuyên gia có bằng cấp hoặc có kiến thức về lĩnh vực đó.


URL: https://jv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:S%C3%A9lakan_umum

Content: W  O  M  J  K 
  iku bauwarna (ènsiklopedhia) kanthi isi tinarbuka   ing jagad maya kang ngutamaaké gotong royong. Sapa waé éntuk nambahi, ngowahi, lan nyunting. Panjenengan kudu migatèaké yèn artikel sing ana ing kéné durung ditliti-priksa dèning wong-wong sing kawogan utawa para pakar kang pinercaya supaya apa sing kapacak ing kéné bisa lengkap, akurat, lan pinercaya. 
 Ananging, prakara iki uga ora ndadéaké Wikipedia kurang bisa digunaaké kanggo ngangsu kawruh. Para sukarélawan sing aktif ing kéné nyoba supaya Wikipedia bisa pinercaya. Ananging, bisa waé informasi sing ana ing kéné diowahi utawa dirusak déning wong-wong sing iseng.
 Artikel-artikel kang tinulis ing Wikipedia iku urun rembugé para penulisé dhéwé. Wikipédia ora mènèhi jaminan marang isiné.
 Sapa waé mardhika kanggo ngowahi lan mbeneraké saben artikel sing ana. Mula saka kuwi, seka prosès sing lumaku sing salawasé iki kedadèn, artikel-artikel mau bisa luwih becik.
 Ing antarané para naraguna Wikipedia, ana sawetara sing dadi  . Wong-wong iki sing njaga lan nglayani ing Wikipedia. Prakara tanggung jawab artikel-artikelé, tetep waé dadi bot-repoté bebarengan.


URL: https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:Avertissements_g%C3%A9n%C3%A9raux

Content: 
 Wikipédia est un site Web qui propose une encyclopédie collaborative dont le contenu est sous « licence libre ». Wikipédia est alimentée par une association volontaire d'individus et de groupes de travail qui veulent élaborer en commun une ressource complète de la connaissance humaine. La structure même de ce projet permet à toute personne disposant d'une connexion Internet d'en modifier le contenu. Soyez donc bien conscient que tout ce qui se trouve ici n'a pas forcément été examiné par des personnes ayant l'expertise nécessaire pour vous fournir des informations complètes, précises et fiables.
 Cela ne veut pas dire non plus que vous ne trouverez pas de renseignements précis et précieux dans Wikipédia. La plupart du temps, vous en trouverez. Cependant,   Le contenu de chaque article peut avoir été récemment modifié, vandalisé ou altéré par une personne dont l'opinion ne correspond pas avec l'état des connaissances dans les domaines concernés, ou avec la neutralité nécessaire.
 La communauté associée à Wikipédia cherche en permanence à sélectionner et à mettre en lumière des versions fiables des articles. Pour cela, elle utilise des outils comme la page de suivi des   et les   pour surveiller l'évolution des contenus en vigueur et leurs modifications. Cependant, Wikipédia n'est pas uniformément relue par des comités de lecture. N'importe quel lecteur peut corriger des erreurs ou se livrer à une  , mais ces lecteurs n'ont aucune obligation juridique de le faire, et donc toutes les informations lues ici sont sans aucune garantie de fiabilité à toute fin ou utilisation que ce soit. Même des articles qui ont été contrôlés par un comité de lecture informel ou validés par un processus menant à un   peuvent ensuite avoir été modifiés de façon inappropriée, juste avant que vous ne les consultiez. Il convient donc de toujours garder une   des articles.
 Le contenu proposé ici est fourni librement, sans engagement aucun de part et d'autre, et aucun type d'accord ou contrat n'est établi entre vous et les propriétaires ou les utilisateurs de ce site, les propriétaires des serveurs sur lesquels il est logé, les contributeurs individuels de Wikipédia, tout administrateur de projet, les bureaucrates, les développeurs, les administrateurs systèmes ou bien tout autre personne qui n'est   à ce projet ou à des projets fils qui peuvent être soumis à vos réclamations directes.
 Vous disposez d'une licence limitée pour copier tout ou partie du contenu de ce site ; cela ne crée ni ne suppose une responsabilité contractuelle ou extra-contractuelle de la part de Wikipédia ou de l'un de ses agents, membres, organisateurs, participants, ou autres utilisateurs.
 Il n'y a   sur l'utilisation ou la modification de ces informations au-delà de la licence Creative Commons Attribution - Partage dans les Mêmes Conditions 4.0 non transposé . De même, si quelqu'un venait à changer, éditer, modifier ou supprimer toute information que vous pouvez déposer sur Wikipédia ou sur l'un de ses projets associés,  .
 Les marques déposées, marques de service, marques collectives, droits de conception, droits de la personnalité ou droits assimilables qui sont mentionnés, utilisés ou cités dans les articles de Wikipédia sont et restent la propriété de leurs propriétaires respectifs. Leur utilisation n'implique pas ici que vous pourriez les utiliser pour d'autres fins que dans un but d'information (ou un but similaire), tel que prévu par les auteurs originaux de ces articles sur Wikipédia dans le cadre de la licence Creative Commons BY-SA-4.0. Sauf indication contraire, les sites Wikipédia et Wikimédia ne sont ni approuvés ni affiliés à l'un des titulaires de ces droits, et en tant que tel, ne peut accorder à Wikipédia le droit d'utiliser tout matériel protégé par ces droits. Votre utilisation de ces mêmes droits, ou de tel autre bien incorporel similaire, n'est faite que sous votre propre responsabilité.
 La publication de l'information qui se trouve sur Wikipédia peut ne pas respecter les lois applicables du pays où vous êtes en train de visualiser cette information. La base de données Wikipédia est stockée sur un serveur dans l'État de   aux  , et son fonctionnement respecte les législations locale et fédérale des États-Unis. Wikipédia ne s'adresse à aucun pays en particulier. Il se peut que les lois applicables dans votre pays n'accordent pas une telle protection, ou ne permettent pas la publication ou la distribution de ce type de discours. Wikipédia n'encourage aucune infraction à la loi et ne peut être tenue pour responsable d'aucune infraction vis-à-vis des lois, que ce soit parce que vous établissez un lien avec ce domaine, que vous utilisiez, reproduisiez ou republiiez l'information contenue sur ce site.
 Si vous avez besoin de conseils spécifiques (par exemple médicaux, juridiques, financiers ou de gestion des risques), veuillez consulter un professionnel compétent ou ayant la notoriété de connaissances dans ce domaine.


URL: https://fa.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%DB%8C%DA%A9%DB%8C%E2%80%8C%D9%BE%D8%AF%DB%8C%D8%A7:%D8%AA%DA%A9%D8%B0%DB%8C%D8%A8%E2%80%8C%D9%86%D8%A7%D9%85%D9%87%D9%94_%D8%B9%D9%85%D9%88%D9%85%DB%8C

Content:  –    –   –   –  
 
ویکی‌پدیا، دانشنامه‌ای با محتویات آزاد و حاصل کار داوطلبانهٔ مشارکت‌کنندگان آن است. هدف این پروژه ایجاد منبعی آزاد برای دانش بشری است. ساختار آن به گونه‌ای است که هرکسی که دسترسی به اینترنت داشته باشد می‌تواند محتویات آن را تغییر دهد. پس بدانید که هیچ مطلبی در اینجا پیدا نمی‌شود که به طور قطع مورد بازنگری افراد متخصص قرار گرفته باشد و بدون هیچ تردیدی صحیح و قابل اعتماد باشد. 
 این بدان معنا نیست که شما نمی‌توانید مطالب ارزشمند و صحیح بر روی ویکی‌پدیا پیدا کنید بلکه در بسیاری موارد می‌توانید. هرچند   محتویات هر مقالهٔ آن ممکن است اخیراً تغییر یافته باشد و در آن خرابکاری صورت گرفته باشد یا فردی غیر متخصص اطلاعات ناصحیحی در آن وارد کرده باشد. توجه داشته باشید که بسیاری از دانش‌نامه‌ها و مراجع دیگر نیز   اینجا دارند.


URL: https://ur.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%DB%8C%DA%A9%DB%8C%D9%BE%DB%8C%DA%88%DB%8C%D8%A7:%D8%B9%D9%85%D9%88%D9%85%DB%8C_%D8%A7%D8%B8%DB%81%D8%A7%D8%B1_%D9%84%D8%A7%D8%AA%D8%B9%D9%84%D9%82%DB%8C

Content: 
 ویکیپیڈیا کو تجارتی غرض سے استعمال میں نہ لائیں،  نہ اس تعلق سے کوئی رائے یا مشورہ تحریر کریں اور نہ ہی کوئی اشتہار دیں،  اگر کسی مضمون یا صفحہ سے یا مکمل ویکیپیڈیا کے کسی بھی اقتباس سے از خود کسی تجارتی اشیاء کی تعریف یا خوبیاں بیان ہوتی نظر آتی ہو تو انھیں مثال بنا کر پیش نہ کریں اور نہ ہی تنقید کا نشانہ بنائیں،  بلکہ اس کی اصلاح کی کوشش کریں۔
 ویکیپیڈیا پر ایسا مواد موجود ہوسکتاہے جو کسی زندہ یا حال ہی میں فوت شدہ شخصیت کے بارے میں ہو۔ زندہ یا حال ہی میں فوت شدہ شخصیات کی تصاویر کا استعمال ان کے حقوق نشر و اشاعت سے قطع نظر بعض ممالک میں قانون حقوق شخصیت کے تحت محدود و پابند ہو سکتا ہے۔
 اگر آپ کو مخصوص مشورے کی ضرورت ہے (جیسے طبی، قانونی، مالی یا پر خطر انتظامی) تو متعلقہ شعبے کے کسی سند یافتہ ماہر سے رابطہ کریں۔


URL: https://fur.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vichipedie:General_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://he.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D7%95%D7%99%D7%A7%D7%99%D7%A4%D7%93%D7%99%D7%94:%D7%94%D7%91%D7%94%D7%A8%D7%95%D7%AA_%D7%9E%D7%A9%D7%A4%D7%98%D7%99%D7%95%D7%AA

Content: להלן מספר הבהרות שחשוב לקחת לתשומת לב בעת השימוש ב . רשות העיון ב  מותנית בידיעתך את התנאים הללו ובהסכמתך להם.
 נודה לך אם תקדיש מזמנך לשם קריאת דף זה, ואנו מקווים שתיהנה מהחוויה שמעניקה לך  .
 אנא ודא שאתה מבין כי המידע המסופק כאן מובא בצורה חופשית ובחינם, ולא נערך כל הסכם או חוזה בינך לבין הבעלים או המשתמשים של אתר זה, בעלי השרתים שבהם מאוחסנת האנציקלופדיה, התורמים הפרטיים לוויקיפדיה, כל מנהל של הפרויקטים, טכנאים או כל אדם אחר שקשור בכל דרך לפרויקט הזה או לפרויקטים אחרים החשופים לטענותיך נגדם באופן ישיר. מוענק לך   להעתיק מתוך אתר זה טקסט, וכן תמונות אשר צוין עליהן שהן להפצה חופשית (בניגוד לתמונות הנמצאות באתר על פי כללי ה  ותמונות אחרות מוגבלות רישיון); רישיון זה לא יוצר או מרמז לכל אחריות המעוגנת בחוזה או בתוספת לו בשום חלק של   או של סוכניה, חבריה, יזמיה או כל משתמש אחר.
 
 
 המידע הזה מובא לך בחינם ו  כל הסכם או הבנה בינך לבין   בנוגע לשימוש שלך או כל שינוי שלך במידע זה מעבר לרישיון של   ו ; כמו כן, אף אחד ב  אינו אחראי לגבי כל שינוי, עריכה, הוספה או הסרה של כל מידע, שאתה עלול לכתוב ב  או בכל פרויקט אחר הנקשר בה.
 
 
 
 ויקיפדיה נערכת על ידי הציבור הרחב של משתמשי האינטרנט ולכן תיתכנה השחתות הן של מלל והן של תמונות. אין ויקיפדיה אחראית להשחתות אלה, ונעשה כל מאמץ על מנת לתקנן.
 באופן עקרוני, ויקיפדיה מאפשרת העלאת תמונות או כתיבת תוכן אשר אינו מפר את כלליה ואת חוקי המדינה; כך מאופשרת העלאת כל תוכן מקורי בעל ערך אנציקלופדי, אשר ניתן לאשש אותו ואשר אינו מהווה הפרה של זכויות יוצרים ומבצעים. הפרות של כלל זה הן השחתה, וויקיפדיה עושה כל מאמץ למנוע אותן.
 יש לזכור כי ויקיפדיה היא גוף התנדבותי, וככזה, ייתכן שייארך זמן מה בטרם תתוקן ההשחתה. אין ויקיפדיה אחראית לכל נזק שייגרם בפרק זמן זה.
 ויקיפדיה היא אנציקלופדיה צעירה אשר נמצאת עדיין בהתהוותה, ולכן ייתכנו בערכים שגיאות, נקיטות עמדה, סתירות, או אי התאמות עם הכללים לעיל.
 מהיותה של ויקיפדיה התנדבותית, אין היא אחראית לכל נזק שייגרם בשל הסתמכות על הערכים, ובמידה ומתגלה הפרה של הכללים, תעשה כל מאמץ לתקן את הערך.
  היא   בעלת תוכן פתוח ומקוון; מיזם התנדבותי של קבוצות ויחידים, השוקדים לפיתוח מאגר משותף של הידע האנושי. המבנה שלה מאפשר לכל פרט בעל גישה ל  ול  ה-  לערוך את התוכן הנמצא בה.
 עם כל הרצון הטוב של הו , הם עשויים לטעות. אנא קחו בחשבון שהמידע המופיע כאן, לא בהכרח נכתב או נבדק על ידי מומחים בתחומם, בעלי הידע הנדרש כדי להעניק לך מידע מושלם, מדויק או אמין לגבי כל נושא אליו מתייחסים הערכים ב .
 נחטא לאמת אם נאמר, שלא תוכל למצוא הרבה מידע בעל ערך ומדויק ב , אך למרות זאת עליך לזכור, ש , מטבעה,   להתחייב לתקפות ונכונות המידע המובא בה. המידע עשוי להיערך, להשתנות, ואף להינזק על ידי מי שהדעה שלו לא תואמת לידע המקובל בתחום מסוים, שאתה מתעניין ללמוד אודותיו.
 אנחנו מחפשים דרכים כדי לבחור ולאשר גרסאות יותר אמינות של ערכים, אבל עדיין ללא כל אחריות.
 
 
 ראו בהמשך הבהרות ספציפיות לגבי תחומי הרפואה והמשפט.
 ויקיפדיה כוללת נושאים רפואיים רבים; למרות זאת,   שהמידע בהם נכון. אין שום ביטחון שכל משפט בערך הנוגע בנושאים רפואיים הינו אמת, נכון או מדויק. אפילו אם נקבעת עובדה רפואית נכונה, ייתכן שהיא לא תהיה מתאימה לגביך או לגבי הסימפטומים שלך.
 המידע הרפואי אותו נותנת   הוא, במקרה הטוב, בעל אופן כללי ואינו יכול להוות תחליף לעצת  , כלומר, רופא מורשה, אחות, רוקח או כל אדם אחר מסוג זה.   אינה רופא.
 אף אחד מהתורמים, מפעילי מערכת, מפתחים או נותני החסות של ויקיפדיה או אף אחד אחר הקשור בדרך כלשהי לוויקיפדיה אינו יכול לקחת אחריות על התוצאות או השלכות של כל ניסיון להשתמש או לאמץ משהו מן האינפורמציה או הדיס־אינפורמציה המוצגים באתר זה.
 
 מובן שאתם מוזמנים לתרום לערכים ב  או   ואתם יכולים לעשות שימוש בכל חומר שתמצאו כאן תחת   ו .
 ויקיפדיה מכילה ערכים בנושאים משפטיים רבים, אולם מאחר שמדובר באנציקלופדיה חופשית, ייתכנו אי דיוקים. אין להסתמך על ערכים אלה כאל מידע משפטי מדויק.
ייתכנו שינויים בדין החל ממדינה למדינה, וכן ייתכנו שינויים בחקיקה ובפסיקה של כל מדינה ומדינה. ערכים יכולים להיות מבוססים על המצב המשפטי ששרר בעת הכנתם, אולם עובדה מסוימת, תקדים חדש, או הלך רוח שונה בבתי המשפט, עשויים לשנות את המצב, ואף להפוך אותו לחלוטין.
 המידע המצוי בוויקיפדיה הוא מידע כללי, ואין בו כדי להחליף מידע הניתן על ידי בעל מקצוע. על המעוניינים בייעוץ משפטי פרטני לפנות לעורך דין העוסק בתחום, ואין ויקיפדיה אחראית לכל נזק או תוצאה שתיגרם בעקבות הסתמכות על המידע המופיע בה.
 כל התוכן המצוי בוויקיפדיה אינו מהווה ייעוץ משפטי כהגדרתו בחוק, ואינו מתיימר להיות ייעוץ כזה.
 אנא נקוט בכל האמצעים הדרושים כדי לוודא, שכל מידע, שאתה מקבל מ  נכון ומאומת.
 אם יש הצעות כלשהן בנוגע לפעילויות מסוכנות, בלתי-חוקיות או לא מוסריות, זכור שכולם יכולים לכתוב מידע זה ב , והם עשויים להיות לא מתאימים בכדי לספק עבורך את המידע, שנודע לך לגביו צורך באמצעי זהירות הולמים, או בצעדים שבהם אתה יכול לנקוט כדי למנוע פציעה, נזק גופני או כל נזק אחר לעצמך, ברכוש או מוניטין.
 אנא הייה מודע לכך שכל מידע שאתה עשוי למצוא בוויקיפדיה עלול להיות לא מדויק, מטעה, מסוכן או בלתי חוקי.
 חובה לבדוק ולאמת כל פרט מידע הנמצא בוויקיפדיה, והאחריות בגין שימוש במידע ותוצאותיו מוטלת כולה על הקורא ועליו בלבד, לכן, האימות העצמאי שלך מומלץ ביותר.
 אם אתה זקוק לייעוץ ספציפי (למשל, רפואי, משפטי, ניהול סיכונים) אנא היוועץ במומחה, שהוא בעל רישיון או בעל ידע בתחום המבוקש.
 אנא שים לב, שהמידע הנמצא כאן עשוי לעבור על חוקיה של המדינה או של תחום השיפוט שבו אתה נמצא בעודך צופה במידע זה.   לא מעודדת עבירה על שום חוק שהוא, אבל מאחר שמידע זה מאוחסן על שרת במדינת   שב , הוא מתוחזק בהתאם להגנות המורשות כולן תחת   ותחת   של  .
 החוקים במדינתך עשויים שלא להכיר בחופש הדיבור בתור חוק של   או של העקרונות שבמגילת האו"ם, ולכן במצב שכזה, " " איננה יכולה להיות אחראית לגבי כל עבירה פוטנציאלית על חוקים שכאלו, שאתה יכול לעשות באמצעות קישור לדומיין זה או שימוש של המידע המובא כאן בכל דרך, אמצעי או מובן אחר.
 מטרתה של ויקיפדיה היא לשמש אוסף של מידע אנושי, וככזה מצויים בה ערכים רבים הכתובים בהתנדבות על ידי כותבים רבים.
חלק מהערכים יכולים להיחשב כפוגעניים, או בוטים על ידי חלק מהקוראים.
על הכותבים להימנע מלכתוב בצורה פוגענית וכן להמנע מלהעלות תמונות אשר יכולות להיחשב כפוגעניות, אבל אין ויקיפדיה אחראית לכל נזק אשר יכול להיגרם עקב עיון בערכים או בתמונות המופיעים בוויקיפדיה.
 ויקיפדיה נערכת על ידי הציבור הרחב של משתמשי האינטרנט ולכן תיתכנה השחתות הן של מלל והן של תמונות. אין ויקיפדיה אחראית להשחתות אלה, ועושה כל מאמץ על מנת לתקנן.
 כעיקרון ויקיפדיה מאפשרת העלאת תמונות או כתיבת תוכן אשר אינו מפר את הכללים שלה, ואת חוקי המדינה, כך יאפשר העלאת כל תוכן מקורי בעל ערך אנציקלופדי, אשר ניתן לתומכו, ואשר אינו מהווה הפרה של זכויות יוצרים ומבצעים. הפרות של כלל זה הן השחתה וויקיפדיה עושה כל מאמץ למנוע אותן.
 יש לזכור כי ויקיפדיה הינה גוף התנדבותי, וככזה, ייתכן שייקח זמן מה בטרם תתוקן ההשחתה. אין ויקיפדיה אחראית לכל נזק שייגרם בפרק זמן זה.
 ויקיפדיה היא אנציקלופדיה בהתהוות תמידית, ולכן ייתכנו בערכים שגיאות, נקיטות עמדה, סתירות, או אי התאמות עם הכללים לעיל.
מהיותה של ויקיפדיה התנדבותית, אין היא אחראית לכל נזק שייגרם בשל הסתמכות על הערכים, ואם מתגלה הפרה של הכללים, תעשה כל מאמץ לתקן את הערך.
 


URL: https://gl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Advertencia_xeral

Content: A Wikipedia é unha enciclopedia colaborativa en liña e de contido aberto, isto é, unha asociación voluntaria de individuos e grupos que están a desenvolver un recurso común e aberto do coñecemento humano. A estrutura do proxecto permite que calquera cunha conexión á internet poida altera-lo seu contido. Está avisado de que nada do que atope aquí tivo por que ser necesariamente revisado por profesionais ou expertos que lle garantan unha información fiable, precisa e completa.
 Isto non quere dicir que non haxa información valiosa e precisa na Wikipedia; encontraraa a meirande parte do tempo. Non obstante,  . O contido de calquera artigo que procure puido ser trocado, vandalizado ou alterado recentemente por alguén cuxa opinión non coincida co coñecemento aceptado nesa área concreta. Saiba tamén que outras moitas enciclopedias e traballos de referencia teñen tamén  .
 Estamos traballando no xeito de seleccionar e destacar versións fiables de artigos. A nosa comunidade activa de editores usa ferramentas como   e   que axudan a facer un seguimento do novo contido e dos cambios que se producen. Malia todo isto, a Wikipedia non está uniformemente revisada de xeito minucioso; namentres que os lectores poden corrixi-los erros ou facer algunha revisión puntual, non teñen a obriga legal de facelo e, deste modo, a información lida aquí carece de ningunha garantía ou pode non axustarse a ningún propósito ou uso, o que sexa. Mesmo artigos que recibiran unha revisión informal ou marcados como   poden ter sido modificados máis tarde de xeito inapropiado, xusto antes de que vostede fose velos.
 
 Por favor, teña claro que a información subministrada aquí está sendo proporcionada de xeito libre, e que este tipo de acordo ou contrato faise entre vostede e os propietarios ou usuarios deste sitio, propietarios dos servidores nos que está aloxado, contribuíntes individuais da Wikipedia, calquera administrador do proxecto ou calquera que estea   con este proxecto ou con algún dos proxectos irmáns. A vostede garánteselle a licenza limitada de copiar calquera contido deste sitio; isto non implica ou crea ningunha ligazón contractual ou extracontractual por parte da Wikipedia ou calquera dos seus axentes, membros, organizadores ou outros usuarios.
 Non existe   respecto ó seu uso ou modificación desta información máis aló da   (CC-BY-SA) e a   (GFDL); nin ninguén na Wikipedia é responsable dos cambios, edicións, modificacións ou eliminacións de ningunha información que vostede poida publicar na Wikipedia ou en calquera dos seus proxectos asociados.
 Calquera das marcas comerciais, marcas de servizo, marcas colectivas, dereitos de deseño ou dereitos semellantes mencionados, usados ou citados nos artigos da Wikipedia son propiedade de seus respectivos donos. O seu uso aquí non implica que vostede poida usalos para calquera outro propósito que non sexa o uso informativo contemplado polos autores orixinais dos artigos desta Wikipedia, baixo os esquemas das licenzas CC-BY-SA e GFDL. Agás que se estableza doutro xeito, a Wikipedia e os sitios da Wikimedia non están afiliados con ningún dos posuidores de calquera destes dereitos que, como tales, non poden garantir ningún dereito de usa-lo material protexido. O uso que faga desta propiedade ou de propiedade similar é baixo o seu propio risco.
 A Wikipedia contén material que pode mostrar o retrato dunha persoa identificable, viva ou recentemente morta. O uso de imaxes de xente viva ou recentemente morta está restrinxido polas leis de imaxe nalgunhas xurisdicións, independentemente do estado dos dereitos de autor. Antes de usar este tipo de contidos, asegúrese de que posúe os dereitos para usalos baixo as leis que se apliquen nas circunstancias do propósito do seu uso.  
 A publicación de información na Wikipedia pode supoñer unha violación das leis do país ou da xurisdición do lugar desde onde está vendo esta información. A base de datos da Wikipedia está almacenada no estado de   nos  , e o seu funcionamento mantense respectando as lexislacións locais e federais. As leis do seu país ou xurisdición poden non protexer ou permitir o mesmo tipo de expresión ou distribución. A Wikipedia non fomenta a vulneración de ningunha lei; e non pode ser responsable de ningunha violación de tales leis. Vostede pode ligar este dominio ou usar, reproducir ou volver publicar a información contida aquí.
 Se necesita algún consello específico (por exemplo, médico, legal, financeiro ou xestión de riscos), por favor, busque un profesional licenciado ou competente nesa área.


URL: https://eu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Erantzukizunen_mugaketa_orokorra

Content:  edukiera irekia da, beraz, pertsona ezberdinen ekarpenekin egindako entziklopedia bat da. Internetarako konexioa eta nabigatzailea duen edonork aldatu ditzake artikuluak. Horregatik, kontuan eduki behar duzu artikulu guztiak ez dituztela gaian jakitunak direnak egin. Honek ez du esan nahi ez dela informazio zehatz edo fidakorra, horrela izango da gehienetan; baina Wikipediak ezin du artikulu guztien egiaztasuna bermatu.
 
  da Wikipediak erabiltzen duen lizentzia.
 Informazio guztia erabiltzeko askatasun guztia duzu, beti ere, lizentzia errespetatuz. Lizentziari buruzko azalpenak orrialde   ematen dira (ez da testu legal bat).
 Hemen biltzen den informazioa dohainik eskaintzen da, zure eta gune honen jabe edo erabiltzaileen artean inolako kontratu edo akordiorik sortu gabe. Esandako lizentzia horretan oinarrituz nahi dituzun aldaketa guztiak egin ditzakezu orrietan baina   edo  lizentzia galdu gabe. Hau da, beste batzuei ere aldaketak egitea baimenduz.
 Baliteke Wikipediak zure sentimenduak iraintzen duen materiala izatea, adingabekoentzako aproposa ez dena edo zure herrialdean debekatuta dagoena. Hau arazo bat izan badaiteke, mesedez ez erabili.


URL: https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Avvertenze_generali

Content: 
 
  è un'enciclopedia online a contenuto aperto, frutto del lavoro di un insieme di volontari, con lo scopo di sviluppare una fonte di conoscenza comune e libera.
Sebbene esistano   e un sistema non ufficiale di gestione anonimo e volontario, la struttura dell'enciclopedia permette a chiunque di modificare il contenuto delle sue pagine.
 È pertanto necessario tenere presente che:
 .
Ciò, naturalmente, non implica la mancanza di informazioni interessanti o accurate, ma è importante sapere che su Wikipedia ogni contenuto può essere modificato, alterato o   da chiunque.
Ciò significa che ogni dato o informazione presente nelle voci di Wikipedia potrebbe non rappresentare adeguatamente l'effettivo stato della conoscenza condivisa o la verità dei fatti.
Alcune edizioni linguistiche di Wikipedia hanno adottato  , ma sempre in forma volontaria e senza garanzia.
La cosa più vicina a questo sistema di selezione è l'attuale sezione « »; tuttavia anche le voci in essa presenti potrebbero essere state successivamente modificate senza il controllo necessario.
 
 Le informazioni riportate sono fornite in maniera libera e gratuita.
Nessun tipo di accordo o contratto sussiste — sia pure in forma implicita — tra l'utente e i proprietari del sito, gli utenti, i proprietari dei server, gli amministratori del progetto, gli amministratori di sistema o qualsiasi altra parte   a Wikipedia o ai progetti collaterali.
 Qualsiasi  , marchio di fabbrica, marchio collettivo, diritto di design, diritto d'immagine, di tutela dei propri dati personali o altri diritti simili, menzionati o utilizzati nelle voci di Wikipedia, è di proprietà dei legittimi detentori.
Tutto il materiale che si trova su Wikipedia è pubblicato dagli utenti (dei quali è conservato l'indirizzo IP a scopo cautelativo) secondo quanto previsto dalle   (CC BY-SA) e   (GFDL).
Wikipedia non può garantire che gli utenti abbiano effettivamente ottemperato a quanto richiesto da dette licenze e non abbiano, quindi, leso alcun diritto: la responsabilità della pubblicazione rimane perciò esclusivamente in capo agli utenti.
Laddove non diversamente dichiarato i siti di Wikipedia e Wikimedia non sono né associati a, né approvati da alcuno dei detentori di tali diritti.
  ed è espressamente vietato.
 È garantita una licenza limitata di copia dei contenuti (secondo le condizioni previste dalle licenze CC BY-SA e GFDL), ma ciò non crea né implica alcuna responsabilità contrattuale o extra-contrattuale da parte di Wikipedia o di uno qualsiasi dei suoi agenti, membri, organizzatori o altre parti.
 
 Le informazioni presenti potrebbero violare delle leggi del luogo di loro fruizione.
Wikipedia non incoraggia le violazioni di legge ma, siccome le informazioni sono conservate su server posti in  , negli  , si assumono a riferimento le disposizioni generali stabilite dal   della   e dalla   delle  .
Alcune legislazioni nazionali potrebbero non accordare una talmente ampia protezione della libertà di parola: Wikipedia non è responsabile per eventuali utilizzi dei propri contenuti considerati illeciti in tali Paesi.
 
 Leggere anche le avvertenze     e   per le liberatorie o per clausole specifiche di esclusione di responsabilità (disclaimer).
  in quanto essa è un'associazione volontaria di individui solo parzialmente strutturata e sviluppata liberamente per creare risorse educative, culturali e informative, online e aperte.
  e   circa il loro utilizzo o modifica, a parte il rispetto delle licenze CC BY-SA e GFDL; parimenti nessuno in Wikipedia è responsabile per il fatto che chicchessia cambi, modifichi o rimuova qualsiasi informazione che chiunque altro o egli medesimo possa aver inserito su Wikipedia o su uno qualsiasi dei suoi progetti associati.
 Il contenuto di questa pagina si applica a   presente in Wikipedia.
 Grazie per il tempo speso per la lettura di queste avvertenze generali, e auguri per una navigazione utile e piacevole su Wikipedia.


URL: https://ga.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vicip%C3%A9id:S%C3%A9anadh_ginear%C3%A1lta

Content: 	
 Ciclipéid saor-ábhair ar líne is ea Vicipéid - .i. cumann deonach de dhaoine aonair agus de ghrúpaí atá ag forbairt acmhainn choitianta de heolas an duine. Ceadaíonn a struchtúr do dhuine ar bith atá le nasc Idirlín agus brabhsálaí an Ghréasáin Dhomhanda aige an ábhar a hathrú. Dá bharr sin, tabhair faoi deara nach gá go léirmheasadh aon rud anseo ag daoine garimiúla atá leis an oilteacht acu eolas  iomlán, cruinn nó iontaofa a thabhairt duit.  
 Ní ionainn é sin agus a rá nach gheobhaidh tú eolas luachmhar cruinn sa Vicipéid, ach ní féidir le Vicipéid bannaí a thabhairt ar bailíocht an eolais atá le fáil anseo. B'fhéidir go raibh sé athraithe, loite nó modhnaithe ag duine a raibh difríocht aige ina thuairim féin faoin eolas. Oibrímid faoi láthair ar meáin chun leagan níos iontaofa de hailt a roghnú agus a chur chun suntais.


URL: https://uk.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D1%96%D0%BA%D1%96%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D1%96%D1%8F:%D0%92%D1%96%D0%B4%D0%BC%D0%BE%D0%B2%D0%B0_%D0%B2%D1%96%D0%B4_%D0%B2%D1%96%D0%B4%D0%BF%D0%BE%D0%B2%D1%96%D0%B4%D0%B0%D0%BB%D1%8C%D0%BD%D0%BE%D1%81%D1%82%D1%96

Content: Вікіпедія — це онлайн-енциклопедія з відкритим вмістом, яку створює спільнота; інакше кажучи, це — об'єднання на волонтерських засадах окремих осіб та груп, що працюють над створенням загального ресурсу знань людства. Структура проєкту дозволяє змінювати його вміст будь-кому, хто має доступ до інтернету. Будь ласка, майте на увазі, що ніщо з того, що можна знайти тут, не отримало формальної експертної рецензії, необхідної для надання Вам повної, точної чи достовірної інформації.
 Однак це не означає, що Ви не знайдете цінної й точної інформації у Вікіпедії; у більшості випадків інформація, розміщена у Вікіпедії, є цілком достовірною. Та втім,   Вміст будь-якої статті Вікіпедії на момент прочитання вже міг хтось змінити, такий вміст міг піддатися вандалізму, чи його міг переписати хтось, чия точка зору не відповідає поглядам, прийнятим у відповідній науковій чи іншій галузі. Зверніть увагу на те, що більшість інших енциклопедій та інших подібних джерел інформації (у тому числі й  ) теж мають відмову від відповідальності.
 Наша активна спільнота редакторів користується такими інструментами, як   та  , щоб відстежувати появу нового контенту і будь-які зміни вже наявного. Однак у Вікіпедії немає механізму рівномірної перевірки інформації; і тоді як читачі можуть виправляти помилки в статтях і навіть час від часу робити неформальні  , у них немає жодних юридичних обов'язків у цьому плані, а тому достовірність чи прийнятність для будь-якого використання інформації, опублікованої на цьому сайті, не має жодних гарантій. І навіть ті статті, які було піддано неформальному експертному рецензуванню, чи які отримали статус  , згодом хтось може відредагувати неналежним чином — навіть за секунду до того, як Ви їх переглядатимете.
 
 Будь ласка, впевніться, що Ви усвідомлюєте, що інформація, яку надає Вікіпедія, надається вільно, і що між Вами та власниками чи користувачами цього сайту, власниками серверів, на яких його розміщено, окремими дописувачами Вікіпедії, будь-якими адміністраторами проєкту чи будь-якими іншими особами,   із цим проєктом чи його сестринськими проєктами, не створюється жодної угоди чи контракту, які б давали Вам змогу висувати проти них будь-які юридичні звинувачення. Ви отримуєте обмежену ліцензію на копіювання будь-якої інформації з цього сайту; вона не створює та не передбачає можливості накладення будь-яких контрактних чи надконтрактних юридичних зобов'язань ані на Вікіпедію, ані на будь-яких її агентів, учасників, організаторів чи інших користувачів.
 Немає жодної   стосовно Вашого способу використання чи будь-яких змін інформації, розміщеної в ній, окрім умов, зазначених у ліцензіях   (CC BY-SA) та   (GFDL); також ніхто у Вікіпедії не несе жодної юридичної відповідальності за будь-яку зміну, редагування, модифікацію чи вилучення будь-якої інформації, розміщеної Вами у Вікіпедії чи в одному з пов'язаних з нею проєктів.
 Будь-які торгові знаки, знаки обслуговування, колективні знаки, права на дизайн чи подібні права, які згадуються, використовуються чи цитуються в статтях Вікіпедії, є власністю їхніх відповідних правовласників. Їхнє використання тут не означає, що Ви можете використовувати їх із будь-якою метою, яка б відрізнялася від такого ж або подібного інформаційного використання, яке мали на меті оригінальні автори відповідних статей Вікіпедії за умови дотримання схеми ліцензування через CC BY-SA та GFDL. Якщо не зазначено протилежне, сайти Вікіпедії та Вікімедіа ані не підтримуються, ані не є афілійованими з будь-якими правовласниками, а тому Вікіпедія не може надавати будь-яких прав на використання будь-яких матеріалів, захищених авторських правом. Якщо Ви використовуєте будь-які такі чи подібні об'єкти нематеріальної власності, Ви робите це виключно на свій власний ризик.
 Вікіпедія містить матеріали, які можуть зображати впізнаваних осіб — живих, чи недавно померлих. Використання зображень живих чи недавно померлих осіб у деяких юрисдикціях обмежується законами, які стосуються прав особистості і є незалежними від статусу авторських прав на зображення. Перед тим, як використовувати контент такого типу, будь ласка, переконайтесь, що Ви маєте право на його використання згідно із законами, застосовними в таких випадках використання, який Ви маєте на меті.  
 Публікація інформації, яку Ви знайшли у Вікіпедії, може порушувати закони тієї країни чи юрисдикції, з якої Ви переглядаєте цю інформацію. База даних Вікіпедії розміщена на серверах у Сполучених Штатах Америки та обслуговується з урахуванням обмежень, передбачених локальними та федеральними законами. Закони Вашої країни чи юрисдикції можуть не захищати чи не дозволяти таких способів висловлення чи поширення інформації. Вікіпедія не заохочує до порушення будь-яких законів і не може нести відповідальності за будь-які порушення таких законів, якщо Ви посилатиметесь на цей домен чи будете використовувати, відтворювати або перевидавати інформацію, яка міститься на цьому сайті.
 Якщо Вам потрібна специфічна порада (наприклад, медична, юридична, фінансова консультація або порада щодо управління ризиком), будь ласка, зверніться до професіонала, який мав би ліцензію чи достатні знання для надання відповідних послуг у потрібній галузі.
 


URL: https://is.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Almennur_fyrirvari

Content: Wikipedia er opið samvinnu-alfræðirit á vefnum; þ.e. samfélag sjálfboðaliða og hópa sem vinnur að því að búa til sameiginlegan brunn mannlegrar þekkingar. Verkefnið er þannig uppbyggt að hver sem er sem hefur aðgang að internetinu getur breytt innihaldi þess. Hafðu í huga að ekkert að því efni sem hér er að finna hefur örugglega verið yfirfarið af fólki sem hefur sérfræðiþekkinguna til þess að búa til tæmandi, nákvæmar og áreiðanlegar upplýsingar.
 Það þýðir ekki að þú munir ekki finna réttar og gagnlegar upplýsingar á Wikipediu. Oft munt þú finna það sem þú þarft. En   Efni greinarinnar sem ert að lesa kann að hafa breyst nýlega, það verið skemmt eða því breytt af einhverjum sem hefur sterkar skoðanir á málefninu sem falla ekki að almennt viðurkenndri þekkingu. Athugaðu að aðrar og hefðbundnari alfræðiorðabækur setja áþekka fyrirvara um innihald.
 Við erum að vinna í aðferðum til þess að velja og vekja athygli á áreiðanlegum útgáfum greina. Samfélag notendanna er virkt í því að fylgjast með nýlegum breytingum og nýjum síðum til þess að vakta nýjar upplýsingar og breytingar. Wikipedia er þó ekki ritrýnd jafnt eða skipulega, notendurnir leiðrétta mögulega villur sem þeir sjá og lesa yfir efni hvers annars en þeir gera það án þess að bera nokkur skylda til þess og því er engin ábyrgð tekin á gildi upplýsinga. Það á jafnvel við um greinar sem valdar hafa verið sérstaklega sem   sem kunna að hafa breyst rétt áður en þú opnaðir greinina. 
 
 Vertu viss um að þú skiljir það að upplýsingarnar sem veittar eru hér eru veittar gjaldfrjáls og að enginn samningur og ekkert samkomulag er í gildi á milli þín annars vegar og hins vegar eigenda þessa vefs, notenda þessa vefs, eigenda vefþjónanna, höfunda Wikipediu, stjórnenda eða möppudýra eða nokkurs annars sem tengist þessu verkefni á nokkurn hátt. Þú hefur leyfi með litlum takmörkunum til þess að nota efnið héðan en það leyfi kemur ekki á og gefur ekki í skyn að framantaldir aðilar beri skaðabótaábyrgð innan eða utan samninga.
  varðandi notkun þína og breytingar á þessu efni umfram almennu afnotaleyfin Creative Commons Attribution-Sharealike 3.0 Unported License (CC-BY-SA) og GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL). Né heldur ber Wikipedia eða nokkur henni tengdur ábyrgð á breytingum annarra á því efni sem þú setur inn á Wikipediu eða systurverkefni.
 Öll vörumerki eða áþekk merki, tákn eða hönnun sem nýtur álíka réttarverndar og sem notuð eru í greinum Wikipediu eða sem vitnað er til eru eign viðkomandi rétthafa. Notkun þeirra hér er ekki ætlað að gefa það í skyn að þér sé heimilt að nota slík merki í öðrum tilgangi en í upplýsingarskyni líkt og þau eru notuð í greinunum. Ef annað er ekki sérstaklega tekið fram þá eru Wikipedia og Wikimedia hvorki studd af né tengd rétthöfum slíkra merkja og getur því ekki gefið leyfi fyrir notkun þeirra. Notkun þín á slíkum merkjum er á þína eigin ábyrgð.
 Á Wikipediu er að finna myndefni af þekkjanlegum einstaklingum sem eru enn á lífi eða nýlega látnir. Í sumum lögsögum er notkun slíkra mynda takmörkuð með lögum varðandi persónuréttindi og slíkar takmarkanir eru óháðar og ótengdar höfundarétti. Áður en þú notar slíkt myndefni skalut vera viss um að þú hafir rétt til þess að nota það samkvæmt þeim lögum sem gilda um ætlaða notkun.  
 Útgáfa efnis sem er að finna í Wikipediu kann að vera brot á lögum í því landi eða í þeirri lögsögu þar sem þú ert að skoða efnið. Gagnagrunnur Wikipediu er geymdur á vefþjónum í Bandaríkjunum og er viðhaldið það með vísan til þeirra réttarverndar sem alríkislög og ríkislög veita. Lögin í þínu landi eða þinni lögsögu veita mögulega ekki sömu vernd eða leyfa áþekka dreifingu efnisins. Wikipedia hvetur ekki til lögbrota og getur ekki tekið ábyrgð á brotum gegn slíkum lögum ef þú tengir í þennan vefm eða notar, dreifir eða gefur út efnið sem hér er að finna.
 Ef þú þarft ráðgjöf (til að mynda læknisfræðilega, lögfræðilega, fjármálalega eða varðandi áhættustjórnun) þá þarft þú að leita til fagmanns á því sviði.


URL: https://eo.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikipedio:Malgarantio

Content: Tiu ĉi interreta enciklopedio estas verkata de la publiko. Kvankam preskaŭ ĉiu kunlaboranto provas serioze disponigi ĝustajn informojn, ne eblas tion garantii. Ĉiu kiu kredas esti kompetenta rajtas fari ŝanĝojn je la tekstoj. Ja evidenta eraro ĝenerale sufiĉe rapide de alia kunlaboranto estos rimarkita kaj korektita. Estas tendenco ke artikoloj pliampleksiĝas kaj plikorektiĝas. Ĉar: ju pli da okuloj, des malpli da eraroj.
 Estas ĉiukaze konsilinde krom tiun ĉi enciklopedion ankaŭ konsulti aliajn referencverkojn aŭ librojn pri specifa fako. Atentu specife pri informoj kiuj estas verkitaj de pasiitaj ŝatantoj de certaj personoj, libroj, filmoj, ktp. Povas esti troigoj :-)
 Se vi opinias tekstoparton malĝusta, vi rajtas libere ĝin korekti se vi certas. Se vi dubas kaj volas fari rimarkon pri la artikolo, tion vi povas fari en la diskutopaĝo kiun ĉiu artikolo enhavas. Nepre tion faru por helpi en la plibonigo de Vikipedio!
 La volontuloj kiuj verkas tiun ĉi enciklopedion (tio estas la publiko, do ankaŭ vi) ne akceptas respondecon pri la ĝusteco de la donitaj informoj. Ili ne povas garantii ke la aŭtoro estis sufiĉe atentema verkante la artikolojn. Vi rajtas tutlibere uzi la informojn, sed proprariske.
 Ekzistas uzantoj ( ) kiuj havas kromajn eblecojn je teknika nivelo. Ili rajtas forigi paĝojn, protekti ilin kaj malebligi al uzanto la verkorajton. Estas eblecoj kiujn la ordinaraj kunlaborantoj ne havas. Tiu ĉi grupo de volontuloj ne estas la retejestroj de Vikipedio, sed vi povas ilin kompari kun domgardistoj de la enciklopedio. Estas plenuma funkcio. La ĉiutagan estradon de la Vikipedio praktike iniciatas la komunumo mem.
 Laŭ jura vidpunkto la   estas la sola fina respondeculo. Se laŭ vi estas iu problemo, unue kontaktu administranton de la esperantlingva Vikipedio. Eblas sendi plendo(j)n, en la angla lingvo, al adreso de  .
 Ĉiuj tekstoj en Vikipedio estas licencitaj laŭ la libera permesilo  . Multaj tekstoj estas ankaŭ sub  , se neniu elmetis en ilin verkon el ekster Vikipedio, kiu verko estas sub CC by-sa sed ne sub GFDL. Se vi mem rimarkas tekston kiu devenas de fonto kun alia aŭtorrajto, bv. tion sciigi aŭ mem ŝanĝi la tekston.
 Neteksta materialo ne ĉiam estas libera laŭ CC by-sa aŭ GFDL. Povas ekzisti limigo por ĝia uzo. La uzanto de Vikipedio devas pri tio mem atenti. Klakante je la materialo en Vikipedio vi povas ekscii pri la rajtoj. Se ne estas mencioj pri aŭtoraj rajtoj ĉe la materialo, gravas supozi ke tamen ekzistas rajtoj kaj ke la materialo ne rajtas esti uzata.


URL: https://fa.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%DB%8C%DA%A9%DB%8C%E2%80%8C%D9%BE%D8%AF%DB%8C%D8%A7:%D8%AA%DA%A9%D8%B0%DB%8C%D8%A8%E2%80%8C%D9%86%D8%A7%D9%85%D9%87%D9%94_%D8%B9%D9%85%D9%88%D9%85%DB%8C

Content:  –    –   –   –  
 
ویکی‌پدیا، دانشنامه‌ای با محتویات آزاد و حاصل کار داوطلبانهٔ مشارکت‌کنندگان آن است. هدف این پروژه ایجاد منبعی آزاد برای دانش بشری است. ساختار آن به گونه‌ای است که هرکسی که دسترسی به اینترنت داشته باشد می‌تواند محتویات آن را تغییر دهد. پس بدانید که هیچ مطلبی در اینجا پیدا نمی‌شود که به طور قطع مورد بازنگری افراد متخصص قرار گرفته باشد و بدون هیچ تردیدی صحیح و قابل اعتماد باشد. 
 این بدان معنا نیست که شما نمی‌توانید مطالب ارزشمند و صحیح بر روی ویکی‌پدیا پیدا کنید بلکه در بسیاری موارد می‌توانید. هرچند   محتویات هر مقالهٔ آن ممکن است اخیراً تغییر یافته باشد و در آن خرابکاری صورت گرفته باشد یا فردی غیر متخصص اطلاعات ناصحیحی در آن وارد کرده باشد. توجه داشته باشید که بسیاری از دانش‌نامه‌ها و مراجع دیگر نیز   اینجا دارند.


URL: https://zu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://tk.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedi%C3%BDa:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://os.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8:%D0%91%C3%A6%D1%80%D0%BD

Content: Википеди у онлайн, гом, æнгомæй аразгæ энциклопеди. Проекты куыст ахæм у, æмæ чифæнды дæр, интернетмæ бахизæн кæмæн ис, йæ бон у ам исты ива. Дæ хорзæхæй, дæ зæрдыл дар уый, æмæ ам цы ссарай, уый, гæнæн ис, эксперттæ нæ ныффыстой. 
 Ай нæ нысан кæны, æмæ ды Википедийы бæлвырд информаци не ссардзынæ. Бирæ архайджытæ зилынц, цæмæй йæ æрммæг бæлвырд уа, æмæ рæстæгæй рæстæгмæ бæлвырд информаци фылдæр кæндзæн. Фæлæ уæддæр,  . Уый йеддæмæ, цыфæнды уац дæр, гæнæн ис, зианхæссæг архайæгæй ивд æрцæуа, æмæ йæ цалынмæ æндæр архайæг ма рацараза, уæдмæ уац æвзæр уагы æвдыст цæудзæн. Æндæр энциклопедитæн дæр сæ фылдæрæн ай хуызæн бæрнисæн ис.
 Википедийы æрмæг мæнг куы разына, æмæ дзы ды уый тыххæй исты хуызы куы фæ æфхæрд уай, уæд уый бæрн   Википидийы архайджытыл ис,   йæ спонсортыл æмæ   Википедиимæ искуыд баст чи у, ахæмтыл.


URL: https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Impressum

Content: „Wikipedia – Die freie Enzyklopädie“ ist im Internet unter   zu finden, die deutschsprachige Ausgabe unter  .
 Anbieterin dieser Website ist die  , eingetragen beim   unter der Nummer N03000005323. Die Wikimedia Foundation ist eine Stiftung nach dem Recht des US-Bundesstaates  . Die verantwortliche Ansprechperson – gleichzeitig   im Sinne des   – ist Stephen LaPorte.
 
 Bei Fragen und Interviewwünschen können Sie sich auf informeller Basis auch gerne an die aktiven deutschsprachigen Ansprechpartner wenden, siehe   und  .
 Wikipedia ist eine freie  . Nähere Informationen zum Projekt erfahren Sie auf der Seite   sowie im  . Die Bezeichnung „frei“ bedeutet dabei, dass Wikipedia-Inhalte   sind. Demnach ist die private oder kommerzielle Verwendung und Weitergabe der in Wikipedia enthaltenen Texte – sofern die Bestimmungen der   oder der   eingehalten werden – gestattet. Für hochgeladene Mediendateien, insbesondere Bilder, können unterschiedliche freie Lizenzen gelten, die auf den Dateibeschreibungsseiten angegeben sind. Diese sind gesondert zu beachten, siehe auch  .
 Bitte beachten Sie die ausführlichen   der Wikimedia Foundation.
 Beachten Sie bitte die verbindliche    und die weiteren Hinweise zum Datenschutz der Wikimedia Foundation.
 Die Wikipedia-Autoren sind aufgerufen, alle Inhalte, die sie zu dieser Website beisteuern, nach   zu erstellen. Die Inhalte der Wikipedia entstehen gemeinschaftlich, offen und ohne direkte redaktionelle Begleitung und Kontrolle. Praktisch jeder Inhalt kann jederzeit durch jedermann verändert werden. Insbesondere können Werke, die unter dem Verdacht stehen, Urheber-, Verwertungs-, Persönlichkeits- oder sonstige Rechte zu verletzen, unmittelbar ohne Rücksprache jederzeit korrigiert bzw. gelöscht werden. Jeder   ist für die von ihm erstellten Beiträge selbst in vollem Umfang verantwortlich. Einen Ausschluss einzelner Benutzer behält sich die Anbieterin ausdrücklich vor.
 Auf Grund der offenen Struktur der Wikipedia und der häufigen Änderungen ihrer Inhalte ist es möglich, dass Sie hier auf unrichtige, unvollständige, veraltete, widersprüchliche, in falschem Zusammenhang stehende oder verkürzte Angaben treffen. Die enzyklopädischen Artikel der Wikipedia dienen des Weiteren der allgemeinen Bildung und Weiterbildung, nicht der Beratung im Falle individueller Anliegen. Es kann deshalb keine Verantwortung für Schäden übernommen werden, die durch das Vertrauen auf die Inhalte dieser Website oder deren Gebrauch entstehen. Bitte beachten Sie auch die gesonderten   und  .
 Die als   oder „Sysop“ bezeichneten Benutzer der Wikipedia sowie die Benutzer mit sonstigen erweiterten Rechten sind keine offiziellen Vertreter der Website-Anbieterin, sondern lediglich Benutzer, denen weitergehende technische Möglichkeiten eingeräumt wurden. Diese Personen helfen in der Regel gern und schnell bei eventuellen Fragen oder Beanstandungen, sind jedoch nicht persönlich für diese Website – insbesondere nicht im Hinblick auf Richtigkeit, Aktualität und Vollständigkeit der zur Verfügung gestellten Informationen – verantwortlich.
 Die Website-Anbieterin weist auf allen Eingabeseiten darauf hin, kein Material zu verwenden, das   Dritter unterliegt. Bei der sehr großen Zahl der in deutscher Sprache vorliegenden elektronischen und vor allem schriftlichen Publikationen kann aber nicht ausgeschlossen werden, dass von Benutzern dennoch unbefugt Material eingebracht wird, das bestehende Schutzrechte verletzt und das nicht sofort als solches erkannt wird.
 Wenn der Anbieterin eine entsprechende Urheberrechtsverletzung angezeigt wird, wird das betreffende Material umgehend entfernt. Offizieller Ansprechpartner für solche Fälle sind die nach US-amerikanischem Recht bestimmten   von Wikimedia.
 Alternativ können Sie sich auf informeller Basis auch an eine Gruppe von aktiven deutschsprachigen Benutzern wenden, die Sie unter   erreichen. Die E-Mail sollte den betroffenen Inhalt in Wikipedia genau bezeichnen (bitte immer URL und ggf. konkreten Abschnitt angeben) sowie die Publikation oder Website nennen, aus der das Material unberechtigt übernommen wurde.
 


URL: https://eu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Erantzukizunen_mugaketa_orokorra

Content:  edukiera irekia da, beraz, pertsona ezberdinen ekarpenekin egindako entziklopedia bat da. Internetarako konexioa eta nabigatzailea duen edonork aldatu ditzake artikuluak. Horregatik, kontuan eduki behar duzu artikulu guztiak ez dituztela gaian jakitunak direnak egin. Honek ez du esan nahi ez dela informazio zehatz edo fidakorra, horrela izango da gehienetan; baina Wikipediak ezin du artikulu guztien egiaztasuna bermatu.
 
  da Wikipediak erabiltzen duen lizentzia.
 Informazio guztia erabiltzeko askatasun guztia duzu, beti ere, lizentzia errespetatuz. Lizentziari buruzko azalpenak orrialde   ematen dira (ez da testu legal bat).
 Hemen biltzen den informazioa dohainik eskaintzen da, zure eta gune honen jabe edo erabiltzaileen artean inolako kontratu edo akordiorik sortu gabe. Esandako lizentzia horretan oinarrituz nahi dituzun aldaketa guztiak egin ditzakezu orrietan baina   edo  lizentzia galdu gabe. Hau da, beste batzuei ere aldaketak egitea baimenduz.
 Baliteke Wikipediak zure sentimenduak iraintzen duen materiala izatea, adingabekoentzako aproposa ez dena edo zure herrialdean debekatuta dagoena. Hau arazo bat izan badaiteke, mesedez ez erabili.


URL: https://tr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikipedi:Genel_sorumluluk_reddi

Content: 
  -  
  -  
  - 
 
  insan bilgisi dâhilinde ortak bir kaynak hazırlamak isteyen kişilerin veya grupların oluşturduğu ve herkesin ortak paydasında birleşen çevrim içi bir ansiklopedidir. Projenin temel hedefi, internet bağlantısı ve bir internet tarayıcısı olan herkesi bu içeriğe dâhil etmektir. Lütfen burada yer alan hiçbir bilginin alanında uzman profesyoneller tarafından değerlendirilmediğini, içeriğin size tam, kesin ve güvenilir bir bilgi sunmadığını unutmayınız. Bilgiler imece usulü herkesin katkıları ile oluşturulur.  
 Bu yargı, zaman geçtikçe sizin de göreceğiniz üzere  de yararlı veya kaliteli içerikler bulamayacağınız anlamına gelmemelidir. Yine de    Girilen herhangi bir maddenin içeriği, yakın bir zaman önce, ilgili maddenin konusuna karşıt görüşe sahip şahıslarca değiştirilmiş, zarar verilmiş olabilir. 
 Makalelerin güvenilir sürümlerini seçme ve bunları vurgulamanın yollarını araştırıyoruz. Yazarlar topluluğumuz,   ve   gibi araçlar kullanarak, değiştirilen ve yeni içeriği gözetlemektedir. Ancak  , gönüllüler tarafından düzenli bir şekilde incelenmediği için, okuyucular, buldukları hataları düzeltebilir veya tamamen rastgele olarak   sayfasıyla iletişim kurabilirlerse de, bu onların yasal yükümlülüğü değildir ve bu nedenle de, burada bulunan bilgilerin hiçbirinin, hiçbir amaca veya kullanıma yönelik olarak uygunluğunun garantisi yoktur. Hatta, hataları çeşitli kişilerce gayrıresmî olarak araştırılmış veya   işleminden geçmiş makaleler bile, siz okumadan kısa zaman önce uygunsuz bir şekilde değiştirilmiş olabilir.
 Burada bilginin serbestçe sağlandığını ve sizinle ve site sahip veya kullanıcıları, içeriğin yayınlandığı sunucu sahipleri,  ye katkıda bulunan bireyler, proje yöneticileri, sistem operatörleri ya da bu ve bu proje konularına bağlı kardeş projelere   diğer kişileri hüküm altına alacak bir anlaşma veya kontrat yaratmadığını anladığınızdan, lütfen emin olun. Sınırlandırılmış izinle bu siteden herhangi bir şeyi kopyalama hakkınız tanınmıştır; bu,  nin bir bölümü veya herhangi bir temsilcisi, üyesi, organizatörü ve diğer kullanıcıları üzerinde herhangi bir sözleşme veya sözleşme dışı bir sorumluluk yaratmaz ya da ifade etmez. 
  ötesinde bu bilgiyi kullanmanız veya düzenlemeniz ile ilişkili olarak,  ,   ve onunla ilişkili kardeş projelerin herhangi birisine gönderdiğiniz herhangi bir bilginin herhangi biri tarafından değiştirilmesi, tadil edilmesi, düzenlenmesi veya silinmesi durumunda  deki hiç kimse sorumlu tutulamaz.
  içeriğinde bulunan, bahsedilen herhangi bir tescilli marka, servis tescili, tasarım hakları, kişisel haklar veya buna benzer haklar şahsi sahiplerinin malıdır. Onların burada bulunması, burada orijinal yazarları tarafından yazılan   altındaki   içeriğindeki amaçtan veya bilgilendirme dışında başka bir amaçla kullanılabileceği anlamına gelmez.   ve   siteleri bu kullanımlardan   ve bu hakların sahibiyle bir anlaşması yoktur.   size bu hakları yukarıda belirtilen amaçlar dışında kullanma hakkı da tanıyamaz. Bu hakları veya benzer hakları  .


URL: https://xh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Limitaci%C3%B3n_general_de_responsabilidad

Content:  es una enciclopedia colaborativa   de contenido abierto, es decir, una asociación voluntaria de personas y grupos que desarrollan conjuntamente una fuente del conocimiento humano. Sus   permiten a cualquier persona que dispone de conexión a Internet, y de un navegador web, modificar el contenido de sus artículos o páginas. Por este motivo, por favor tenga presente que  .
 Esto no significa que no vaya a encontrar información exacta y valiosa en Wikipedia; así será la mayoría de las veces. Sin embargo,  . El contenido de cualquier artículo puede haber sido recientemente cambiado,   o alterado por alguien cuya versión puede no corresponder con el estado de los conocimientos en las áreas pertinentes.
 Estamos trabajando sobre la forma de seleccionar y resaltar versiones fiables de los artículos. Nuestra activa comunidad de editores utiliza diversas herramientas tales como las páginas de   y   para vigilar las modificaciones y creaciones de contenido. Sin embargo, Wikipedia no es uniformemente revisada por pares; si bien los lectores pueden corregir errores o eliminar las sugerencias erróneas en una   informal, ellos no tienen obligación legal de hacerlo y, por ende, toda la información que se incluya se hace sin ningún tipo de garantía implícita de aptitud para cualquier fin o uso. Incluso los artículos que han sido aprobados mediante revisiones por pares informales o tras un proceso de votación de   pueden ser más tarde modificados inapropiadamente, justo antes de que usted los lea.
 
 La información contenida en Wikipedia se suministra libremente, sin crear ningún tipo de acuerdo o contrato entre usted y los propietarios o usuarios de este sitio, los propietarios de los servidores en los que este sitio web está alojado, los contribuyentes individuales a Wikipedia, los administradores de cualquier proyecto, los operadores del sistema, ni persona alguna relacionada con este proyecto u otros proyectos hermanos. Se le concede a usted una licencia limitada para copiar cualquier material de este sitio; esa licencia no crea en forma alguna responsabilidad contractual o extracontractual de parte de Wikipedia ni ninguno de sus agentes, miembros, organizadores u otros usuarios.  .
 Este   que cubra el uso o las modificaciones que usted haga respecto de la información, más allá de los términos del esquema de licenciamiento mencionado en el párrafo anterior; nadie en Wikipedia además de usted puede ser considerado responsable de los cambios, alteraciones, modificaciones o eliminaciones de cualquier información que usted mismo realice en Wikipedia o cualquiera de sus proyectos asociados.
 Cualesquiera marcas registradas, marcas de servicio, marcas colectivas, derechos de diseño u otros derechos de propiedad industrial que se mencionan, usan o citan en los artículos o páginas de Wikipedia son propiedad de los respectivos titulares. Su utilización aquí no implica que usted pueda usarlos para otro propósito distinto del uso informativo idéntico o similar al contemplado por los autores originales de los artículos en Wikipedia bajo los términos del  . 
Salvo indicación en contrario, los sitios web de Wikipedia y Wikimedia no están relacionados con los titulares de los citados derechos, y por lo tanto Wikipedia no puede otorgar derecho alguno para el uso de materiales protegidos. El uso que usted haga de esa propiedad inmaterial o similares es exclusivamente bajo su propio riesgo.
 La publicación de la información contenida en Wikipedia podría contravenir las leyes del país o jurisdicción desde donde se accede a la información. La base de datos de Wikipedia está alojada en un servidor situado en el estado de Florida, en los Estados Unidos de América, y es mantenida en referencia a las protecciones garantizadas por las leyes locales y federales de ese país. Las leyes en su país o jurisdicción podrían no proteger o permitir las mismas clases de expresión o distribución. Wikipedia no promueve la violación de ninguna ley; y no puede ser responsabilizada por ninguna violación de tales leyes, en caso de que enlace a este sitio o use, reproduzca o republique la información aquí contenida.
 Salvo indicación de lo contrario, las conclusiones, las interpretaciones y las opiniones expresadas en los artículos de Wikipedia corresponden a sus respectivos autores, y no representan necesariamente el punto de vista de Wikipedia. 
La información suministrada  
 Si necesita asesoramiento específico (por ejemplo, médico, legal, financiero, o de gestión de riesgos), por favor solicite un profesional que cuente con licencia o con conocimientos en la materia.
 
 Por el carácter general,  . Si esto puede suponer un problema, por favor absténgase de su uso. Si es menor de edad, consulte a sus progenitores o tutores legales antes de hacer uso de Wikipedia.


URL: https://ee.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content:  enye nunyagbãle si li fãa na amewo katã ƒe zazã, eye wònye ame vovowo kple habɔbɔ vovowo siwo na kpekpeɖeŋu le dɔsia ŋɔŋlɔm le xexeme nunyaŋu godoo. Eƒe nɔnɔme naamɔ amesiame si ateŋu azã   kple   ŋudɔ be wòatrɔ nusiwo le eme. Ne nɔ nyanyame nawò be menye nusianu si le afisia me nunyaladeŋgɔwo kple agbalẽnyalagãwo to be wole eme vavã o.
 Esia melegbɔgblɔm be wòmakpɔ nuveviewo kple nunya vavã le   la dzi o; zigeɖe la, wòakpɔe. Gake   ma ateŋu ado ŋugbe nawò be nusianu si le afisia le eme vavã o. Ɣeaɖewoɣi la, nuŋɔŋlɔa ɖewo ƒe tatawo woatrɔ medidi o, elabena ameaɖe alo nubaɖawɔla ɖe wɔ tɔtrɔa ɖe si mesɔ kple nunyalawo kple agbãlenyalawo le xexeame katã ƒe susuwo o.
 Míele asitrɔm le alesi míatia alo míade dzesi nuŋɔŋlɔwo ƒe tata siwo ŋu ŋugbe le. Míaƒe nuŋlɔlawo zãna dɔwɔnu tɔxea ɖewo abe   kple   tsɔ nɔ ŋkulem ɖe nuyeyewo kple tɔtrɔ yeyeawo ŋu. Habɔbɔa ɖeke meli si toa   la me o; togbɔ be nuxlẽla geɖewo wɔna ɖɔɖɔɖowo alo wotoa nuaɖewo me hã abe  , sea ɖeke meli si na dɔ sia wɔwɔ o. Nuŋɔŋlɔ siwo wotia kpɔ le wome toto megbe hã abe   woteŋu trɔna emegbe elabena ameaɖe vayi wɔ tɔtrɔ vɔ̃ɖia ɖe hafi nevale exlem.
 Taflatse, eme nekɔ na amesiame bena nusiwo katã woŋlɔ ɖe afisia li fãa na amewokatã, eye ŋugbedodoa ɖeke mele wò kpakple afisia ƒe aƒetɔwo kple ezãlawo, amesiwo ƒe mɔwo dzi nuŋɔŋlawo le,   la me nuŋlŋlawo ɖesiaɖe, dɔdzikpɔlawo, sysɔpwo alo amebuba ɖeke si do ƒome kple dɔ sia alo eƒe ƒomedodowo o. Mɔɖeɖea ɖe li be na tsɔ nusianu fãa tso afisia; Esia me fia be gɔmesesea ɖeke li le   kple eƒe dɔwɔlawo kple ezãlawo kpakple wò dome o.
  na nyasiawo zãza alo wotɔtrɔ si mele   (GFDL) mɔɖeɖewo nu o; Ne ameaɖe wɔ tɔtrɔa ɖe le nusiwo neŋlɔ ŋu le   dzi alo woɖe eƒe akpa ɖe la, wòmekpɔ mɔ abu fɔ   alo eƒe ƒomedodoa ɖeke o.
 Dzesi tɔxe (abe  ) siwo  dze le Wikipiɖia la me la nye nutɔwo ŋutɔ tɔ. Woƒe zãzã le afisia mefia be mɔ li na wo ŋudɔ wɔwɔ le goa ɖeke me si to vovo na esiwo woɖe mɔ na le GFDL mɔɖeɖewo te o. Ne wome gblɔe fitaa o la, ekema ƒomedodoa ɖeke mele Wikipiɖia kple Wikimedia kpakple dzesitɔa ɖeke o eyata Wikipiɖia mateŋu aɖe mɔ na ameaɖeke be wòazã nusiwo nutɔwo meɖe mɔ na o la.  
 Ɖewomahĩ   menuwo ɖeɖefia alo woŋɔŋlɔ ada se dzi le dukɔ alo afisi wòle la me.   dɔwo katã le mɔwo dzi le   le   eye wozãa wo le afima ƒe sewo nu. Se siwo le wòƒe dukɔme ƒe mɔɖeɖewo na nusiwo wòateŋu agblɔ alo nusiwo wòateŋu ama na amewo ateŋu ato vovo tso esiawo gbɔ.   me doa ŋuse ameaɖeke be wòa da wo de sewo dzi o eyata ne eda se siawo dzi la, wò ɖeka woa bu fɔe.
 Ne ehiã aɖaŋu na nutɔxea ɖe (le kpɔɖeŋu me, dɔyɔyɔ, sewo, ganyawo) me la, di amesi wɔa dɔ le numa ŋuti. Kpɔ  ,  , and   hã.
 Mieda akpe nawo bena ne gbɔdzi ɖi xlẽ nusiwo le afisia eye míe xɔese be   la zãzã adze ŋuwo.
 Togbɔ be wona agbãlenyalawo kple nusrɔ̃ladeŋgɔwo to nunyagbãle bubwo me hã, yawo hã medo ŋugbe be nusianu le eme vavã o.


URL: https://tcy.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B2%B5%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%95%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%AA%E0%B3%80%E0%B2%A1%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%AF:%E0%B2%B8%E0%B2%BE%E0%B2%AE%E0%B2%BE%E0%B2%A8%E0%B3%8D%E0%B2%AF%E0%B3%8A_%E0%B2%B9%E0%B2%95%E0%B3%8D%E0%B2%95%E0%B3%8D%E2%80%8C_%E0%B2%A8%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%B0%E0%B2%BE%E0%B2%95%E0%B2%B0%E0%B2%A3%E0%B3%86%E0%B2%B2%E0%B3%81

Content: Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content.  Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.  However,    The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.  Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works  .
 Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content.  However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever.  Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC-BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or deceased recently.  The use of images of living or recently deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.   
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial or risk management), please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://udm.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%8F:%D0%9A%D1%8B%D0%BB_%D0%BA%D1%83%D1%82%D1%8D%D0%BC%D0%BB%D1%8D%D1%81%D1%8C_%D0%BA%D1%83%D1%88%D1%82%D3%A5%D1%81%D1%8C%D0%BA%D0%BE%D0%BD

Content: Кыл кутэмлэсь куштӥськон пумысен нимысьтыз статья удмурт википедиын дасямын ӧвӧл на бере, учке вал  
 Пдсм


URL: https://nv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikiib%C3%AD%C3%ADdiiya:General_disclaimer

Content: We are working on ways to select and highlight reliable versions of articles.  Our active community of editors uses tools such as the Special:Recentchanges and Special:Newpages feeds to monitor new and changing content.  However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual peer review, they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever.  Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the Creative Commons Attribution-Sharealike 3.0 Unported License (CC-BY-SA) and the GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or deceased recently.  The use of images of living or recently deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to personality rights, independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.   
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of Florida in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://et.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikipeedia:%C3%9Cldine_lahti%C3%BCtlus

Content:  Vikipeedia on vabatahtlikul koostööl põhinev veebientsüklopeedia. Igaüks, kellel on internetiühendus, saab lehekülgede sisu muuta. Andmed ei ole tingimata ekspertide kontrollitud. Need võivad olla vananenud, vandaalide laastatud või ümber tehtud kellegi poolt, kelle arvamus ei vasta selle eriala üldtunnustatud teadmistele. See ei tähenda, et Te ei leia siit väärtuslikku ja täpset infot, enamasti leiate. Kuid Vikipeedia ei saa anda garantiid oma sisu õigsusele.
 Aktiivsemad kaastöölised jälgivad   ja   loendit, kuid Vikipeedias ei toimu üldist ja ühtlast retsenseerimist. Kõik kaastöölised ja lugejad võivad parandada vigu ja artiklite arendamise eesmärgil osaleda vabavormilistes aruteludes, kuid neil ei ole selleks kohustust.
 Mitte ükski Vikipeedia kaastöölistest, administraatoritest, sponsoritest ega teistest mis tahes moel Vikipeediaga seotud inimestest ei vastuta võimaliku Vikipeedias leiduva valeinfo või laimu eest ega tagajärgede eest, kui Te seda infot kasutate.
  Kui vajad erialast nõu (näiteks meditsiinilist või õiguslikku), pöördu erialaasjatundja poole. Eraldi leheküljelt saad lugeda  .


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:General_disclaimer&action=history

Content: For any version listed below, click on its date to view it. For more help, see   and  .   from current version,   from preceding version,  ,  ,  


URL: https://eml.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Avert%C3%A8insi_gener%C3%A8li

Content: <div id="mcAolps1" class="mcPestanya"  >
 C'l artìcol chè 'l è scrit in
   
 A n'se gh'la cheva minga 'd garantìr el verìfichi o i contrôl dal pàgini ed cal sit chè da pert ed sogêt ch'i sìen legalmèint abilitê o ch'i gh'àpien el competèinsi ch'a servìs in di camp ch'a s descòr, mèinter che s'i gh'fùsen, l'informasiòun la sarèv sicùra e da tōr più ala lettra.
 Nisùn avtōr, cuntribudōr,  , aministradōr, sistemìsta, o 'n ètra pert lighèda ala Wikipedia, la pōl dìres responsàbil s'a s cata na quelc infurmasiòun mìa giustèda, ofensìva, e gnanc che quelchidùn al dróva cagli informasiòun lè, e gnanc ed na quelc ruèina gnuda fóra per cal druamèint lè.
 Incòr, la Wikipedia la nn'è minga reviśionèda in manéra uguèla; anc s'a s egh próva, a coréger di erōr, mo a n s'egh'la cheva minga ed fèrel sèimper e anc a n'gh'n è minga al cmànd: 'd in manéra ch'a n'gh'è minga la certèsa che tùti el scrìti i sìen bòuni.
 Per di cunsìli più precîś (p'r eśèinpi ed Medśèina, ed Lēś, in sìm'ai Rìsć) a gh'è da descòrern a 'n profesionìsta ch'al gh'n àpia al tìtol.


URL: https://et.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikipeedia:%C3%9Cldine_lahti%C3%BCtlus

Content:  Vikipeedia on vabatahtlikul koostööl põhinev veebientsüklopeedia. Igaüks, kellel on internetiühendus, saab lehekülgede sisu muuta. Andmed ei ole tingimata ekspertide kontrollitud. Need võivad olla vananenud, vandaalide laastatud või ümber tehtud kellegi poolt, kelle arvamus ei vasta selle eriala üldtunnustatud teadmistele. See ei tähenda, et Te ei leia siit väärtuslikku ja täpset infot, enamasti leiate. Kuid Vikipeedia ei saa anda garantiid oma sisu õigsusele.
 Aktiivsemad kaastöölised jälgivad   ja   loendit, kuid Vikipeedias ei toimu üldist ja ühtlast retsenseerimist. Kõik kaastöölised ja lugejad võivad parandada vigu ja artiklite arendamise eesmärgil osaleda vabavormilistes aruteludes, kuid neil ei ole selleks kohustust.
 Mitte ükski Vikipeedia kaastöölistest, administraatoritest, sponsoritest ega teistest mis tahes moel Vikipeediaga seotud inimestest ei vastuta võimaliku Vikipeedias leiduva valeinfo või laimu eest ega tagajärgede eest, kui Te seda infot kasutate.
  Kui vajad erialast nõu (näiteks meditsiinilist või õiguslikku), pöördu erialaasjatundja poole. Eraldi leheküljelt saad lugeda  .


URL: https://ig.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content.  Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.  However,    The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.  
 We are working on ways to select and highlight reliable versions of articles.  Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content.  However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever.  Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Limitaci%C3%B3n_general_de_responsabilidad

Content:  es una enciclopedia colaborativa   de contenido abierto, es decir, una asociación voluntaria de personas y grupos que desarrollan conjuntamente una fuente del conocimiento humano. Sus   permiten a cualquier persona que dispone de conexión a Internet, y de un navegador web, modificar el contenido de sus artículos o páginas. Por este motivo, por favor tenga presente que  .
 Esto no significa que no vaya a encontrar información exacta y valiosa en Wikipedia; así será la mayoría de las veces. Sin embargo,  . El contenido de cualquier artículo puede haber sido recientemente cambiado,   o alterado por alguien cuya versión puede no corresponder con el estado de los conocimientos en las áreas pertinentes.
 Estamos trabajando sobre la forma de seleccionar y resaltar versiones fiables de los artículos. Nuestra activa comunidad de editores utiliza diversas herramientas tales como las páginas de   y   para vigilar las modificaciones y creaciones de contenido. Sin embargo, Wikipedia no es uniformemente revisada por pares; si bien los lectores pueden corregir errores o eliminar las sugerencias erróneas en una   informal, ellos no tienen obligación legal de hacerlo y, por ende, toda la información que se incluya se hace sin ningún tipo de garantía implícita de aptitud para cualquier fin o uso. Incluso los artículos que han sido aprobados mediante revisiones por pares informales o tras un proceso de votación de   pueden ser más tarde modificados inapropiadamente, justo antes de que usted los lea.
 
 La información contenida en Wikipedia se suministra libremente, sin crear ningún tipo de acuerdo o contrato entre usted y los propietarios o usuarios de este sitio, los propietarios de los servidores en los que este sitio web está alojado, los contribuyentes individuales a Wikipedia, los administradores de cualquier proyecto, los operadores del sistema, ni persona alguna relacionada con este proyecto u otros proyectos hermanos. Se le concede a usted una licencia limitada para copiar cualquier material de este sitio; esa licencia no crea en forma alguna responsabilidad contractual o extracontractual de parte de Wikipedia ni ninguno de sus agentes, miembros, organizadores u otros usuarios.  .
 Este   que cubra el uso o las modificaciones que usted haga respecto de la información, más allá de los términos del esquema de licenciamiento mencionado en el párrafo anterior; nadie en Wikipedia además de usted puede ser considerado responsable de los cambios, alteraciones, modificaciones o eliminaciones de cualquier información que usted mismo realice en Wikipedia o cualquiera de sus proyectos asociados.
 Cualesquiera marcas registradas, marcas de servicio, marcas colectivas, derechos de diseño u otros derechos de propiedad industrial que se mencionan, usan o citan en los artículos o páginas de Wikipedia son propiedad de los respectivos titulares. Su utilización aquí no implica que usted pueda usarlos para otro propósito distinto del uso informativo idéntico o similar al contemplado por los autores originales de los artículos en Wikipedia bajo los términos del  . 
Salvo indicación en contrario, los sitios web de Wikipedia y Wikimedia no están relacionados con los titulares de los citados derechos, y por lo tanto Wikipedia no puede otorgar derecho alguno para el uso de materiales protegidos. El uso que usted haga de esa propiedad inmaterial o similares es exclusivamente bajo su propio riesgo.
 La publicación de la información contenida en Wikipedia podría contravenir las leyes del país o jurisdicción desde donde se accede a la información. La base de datos de Wikipedia está alojada en un servidor situado en el estado de Florida, en los Estados Unidos de América, y es mantenida en referencia a las protecciones garantizadas por las leyes locales y federales de ese país. Las leyes en su país o jurisdicción podrían no proteger o permitir las mismas clases de expresión o distribución. Wikipedia no promueve la violación de ninguna ley; y no puede ser responsabilizada por ninguna violación de tales leyes, en caso de que enlace a este sitio o use, reproduzca o republique la información aquí contenida.
 Salvo indicación de lo contrario, las conclusiones, las interpretaciones y las opiniones expresadas en los artículos de Wikipedia corresponden a sus respectivos autores, y no representan necesariamente el punto de vista de Wikipedia. 
La información suministrada  
 Si necesita asesoramiento específico (por ejemplo, médico, legal, financiero, o de gestión de riesgos), por favor solicite un profesional que cuente con licencia o con conocimientos en la materia.
 
 Por el carácter general,  . Si esto puede suponer un problema, por favor absténgase de su uso. Si es menor de edad, consulte a sus progenitores o tutores legales antes de hacer uso de Wikipedia.


URL: https://tg.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D0%B0:%D0%A2%D0%B0%D0%BA%D0%B7%D0%B8%D0%B1%D0%BD%D0%BE%D0%BC%D0%B0%D0%B8_%D1%83%D0%BC%D1%83%D0%BC%D3%A3

Content: ,  -энциклопедия с открытым содержимым, является добровольным сообществом личностей и групп, создающих общее хранилище человеческих знаний. Её строение позволяет любому, кто имеет доступ к Интернету и  , изменять её содержание. Поэтому, пожалуйста, примите во внимание, что приведённые здесь сведения могут быть не проверенными профессионалами, обладающими знаниями в соответствующих областях, необходимыми для предоставления вам полной, точной или заслуживающей доверия информации о любом понятии в Википедии.
 Нельзя сказать, что в Википедии не так уж много полезной и точной информации, однако вы должны сознавать, что   Во время прочтения они могли быть только что изменены, испорчены, либо написаны тем, чьё мнение отличается от общепринятого в области знаний, интересующей вас.
 Мы ищем пути проверки и отбора вызывающих наибольшее доверие версий статей, но мы не можем ничего гарантировать. Наше наибольшее достижение — это  , но даже они могли быть испорчены или искажены кем-то за несколько мгновений до прочтения вами.
 Пожалуйста, примите во внимание, что вся информация, находящаяся здесь, предоставлена свободно, как акт доброй воли, без заключения каких-либо договорённостей или договоров между вами и владельцами или пользователями данного сайта, владельцами серверов, на которых он размещён, авторами Википедии, администраторами проекта, операторами либо кем-то ещё,   с этим или родственными ему проектами, которые [договоры] могут стать предметом прямых претензий. Вам предоставляется ограниченное право копировать содержимое этого сайта — данное право не предусматривает и не подразумевает никакой договорной или иной ответственности за любую часть Википедии или её агентов, участников, организаторов или других пользователей.
 Любые торговые марки, знаки и названия товаров, служб и организаций, права на  , авторские и смежные права, которые упоминаются, используются или цитируются в статьях, принадлежат их законным владельцам. Их использование здесь не даёт вам право на любое другое использование, кроме предусмотренного авторами статей Википедии в соответствии со схемой лицензирования  . Если не указано иное, Википедия и сайты Фонда Викимедиа никак не связаны с правообладателями, и поэтому Википедия не может распоряжаться правами на использование материалов, защищённых авторским правом.  
 Обратите внимание, что чтение, распространение или изменение информации, размещённой в Википедии, может являться нарушением законов той страны, в которой вы просматриваете этот сайт. Википедия не призывает к нарушению никаких законов, но так как информация сохраняется на серверах, расположенных в  , мы пользуемся правами, предоставленными всем   и принципами    . Законы вашей страны могут трактовать защиту свободы слова не так широко, как законы США или Хартия ООН — в этом случае Википедия не несёт ответственности за любые потенциальные нарушения этих законов вами при создании ссылок на этот сайт или другом использовании любой содержащейся здесь информации.
 , так как является добровольным сообществом, свободно организованным для создания открытых образовательных, культурных и информационных ресурсов.   и не существует   относительно использования или изменения информации, не предусмотренного лицензией  . Также никто в Википедии не несёт ответственности за изменение, редактирование или удаление любой информации, добавленной вами в Википедию или другие связанные с ней проекты.
 Спасибо, что потратили своё время на чтение этой страницы. Желаем вам получить только приятные впечатления от пользования Википедией.
 


URL: https://eml.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Avert%C3%A8insi_gener%C3%A8li

Content: <div id="mcAolps1" class="mcPestanya"  >
 C'l artìcol chè 'l è scrit in
   
 A n'se gh'la cheva minga 'd garantìr el verìfichi o i contrôl dal pàgini ed cal sit chè da pert ed sogêt ch'i sìen legalmèint abilitê o ch'i gh'àpien el competèinsi ch'a servìs in di camp ch'a s descòr, mèinter che s'i gh'fùsen, l'informasiòun la sarèv sicùra e da tōr più ala lettra.
 Nisùn avtōr, cuntribudōr,  , aministradōr, sistemìsta, o 'n ètra pert lighèda ala Wikipedia, la pōl dìres responsàbil s'a s cata na quelc infurmasiòun mìa giustèda, ofensìva, e gnanc che quelchidùn al dróva cagli informasiòun lè, e gnanc ed na quelc ruèina gnuda fóra per cal druamèint lè.
 Incòr, la Wikipedia la nn'è minga reviśionèda in manéra uguèla; anc s'a s egh próva, a coréger di erōr, mo a n s'egh'la cheva minga ed fèrel sèimper e anc a n'gh'n è minga al cmànd: 'd in manéra ch'a n'gh'è minga la certèsa che tùti el scrìti i sìen bòuni.
 Per di cunsìli più precîś (p'r eśèinpi ed Medśèina, ed Lēś, in sìm'ai Rìsć) a gh'è da descòrern a 'n profesionìsta ch'al gh'n àpia al tìtol.


URL: https://gor.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Mom%C4%81hu_umum

Content: Wikipedia yito ensiklopedia tuwangiyo bu'a-buade to delomo jaringan umum, ma'analiyo Wikipedia botiya himbunguwa lo tawu ngota wawu tawu daata ta hipokarajawa pe'eenta lo'u pereyi momongu sumberdaya bersama berupa pengetahuan umat manusia. Struktur proyeknya memungkinkan siapa saja yang memiliki koneksi Internet untuk mengubah isinya. Harap diketahui bahwa semua yang ada di sini belum ditinjau oleh orang-orang dengan keahlian yang dibutuhkan untuk menyajikan informasi yang lengkap, akurat, dan tepercaya.
 Bukan berarti Anda tidak dapat menemukan informasi berharga dan akurat di Wikipedia. Anda akan sering menemukannya. Akan tetapi,  . Isi artikel mana pun mungkin baru saja diubah, dirusak, atau diganti oleh seseorang yang opininya tidak sesuai dengan pengetahuan di bidang yang terkait. Harap diingat bahwa kebanyakan ensiklopedia dan karya referensi lainnya  .
 Komunitas penyunting kami yang aktif menggunakan perangkat seperti   dan   untuk mengawasi penambahan dan perubahan isi. Tetapi Wikipedia tidak mendapat penilaian sejawat secara merata. Walaupun para pembaca dapat memperbaiki kesalahan atau terlibat dalam proses   ( ) biasa, mereka tidak punya kewajiban hukum untuk melakukannya sehingga semua informasi yang disajikan di sini tidak disertai jaminan kelayakan untuk keperluan atau penggunaan apa pun. Bahkan artikel yang telah melalui proses penilaian sejawat informal atau   nantinya akan disunting secara tidak benar, tepat sebelum Anda membacanya.
 
 Harap yakinkan bahwa Anda mengerti bahwa informasi yang ada di sini disediakan secara secara bebas, dan tak ada perjanjian atau kontrak yang dibuat antara Anda dan para pemilik atau pengguna
situs ini, pemilik server yang ditempati, individu kontributor Wikipedia, pengurus proyek, atau siapa pun yang dengan cara apa pun   dengan proyek ini atau proyek kerabatnya yang dapat dijadikan dasar untuk melakukan tuntutan secara langsung terhadap mereka. Anda diberikan suatu lisensi terbatas untuk menyalin apa pun dari situs ini; hal tersebut tidak menyebabkan suatu kewajiban kontraktual atau ekstra kontraktual bagi pihak Wikipedia atau agen, anggota, penyelenggara, atau pengguna lain.
  mengenai penggunaan atau modifikasi informasi ini di bawah   ( , GFDL); juga tidak ada seseorang di Wikipedia yang bertanggung jawab jika seseorang mengubah, menyunting, memodifikasi, atau membuang informasi apa pun yang mungkin Anda masukkan di Wikipedia atau proyek lain yang berhubungan.
 Publikasi informasi yang ditemukan di Wikipedia mungkin melanggar hukum negara atau yurisdiksi di wilayah tempat Anda membaca informasi ini. Basis data Wikipedia disimpan di peladen di negara bagian   di  , dan berada dalam perlindungan hukum lokal dan federal setempat. Hukum di negara atau yurisdiksi Anda mungkin tidak melindungi atau mengizinkan pembicaraan atau distribusi yang serupa. Wikipedia tidak mendorong pelanggaran hukum apa pun; dan tidak dapat dikenai tanggung jawab untuk segala pelanggaran hukum tersebut, jika Anda menghubungkan ke ranah ( ) ini atau menggunakan, mereproduksi, atau menerbitkan ulang informasi yang tercantum di sini.
 Jika Anda mencari nasihat spesifik (contohnya medis, legal, keuangan, atau manajemen risiko) silakan cari seorang profesional yang berlisensi atau memiliki pengetahuan pada bidang tersebut.


URL: https://el.wikipedia.org/wiki/%CE%92%CE%B9%CE%BA%CE%B9%CF%80%CE%B1%CE%AF%CE%B4%CE%B5%CE%B9%CE%B1:%CE%91%CF%80%CE%BF%CF%80%CE%BF%CE%AF%CE%B7%CF%83%CE%B7_%CE%B5%CF%85%CE%B8%CF%85%CE%BD%CF%8E%CE%BD

Content: Η ΒΙΚΙΠΑΙΔΕΙΑ ΔΕΝ ΠΑΡΕΧΕΙ ΕΓΓΥΗΣΗ ΠΟΙΟΤΗΤΑΣ
 Η   είναι διαδικτυακή εγκυκλοπαίδεια ανοικτού κειμένου, δηλαδή εθελοντική ένωση ατόμων και ομάδων που αναπτύσσουν έναν κοινό πόρο ανθρώπινης γνώσης. Η δομή της δίνει τη δυνατότητα σε οποιονδήποτε μπορεί να συνδεθεί στο Διαδίκτυο μέσω ενός προγράμματος περιήγησης ή της εφαρμογής για κινητά της Wikipedia να αλλάξει το περιεχόμενό της. Επομένως, παρακαλούμε να λάβετε υπ' όψιν ότι οι πληροφορίες που βρίσκονται εδώ δεν έχουν απαραιτήτως ελεγχθεί από επαγγελματίες με την απαραίτητη πείρα, ώστε να φτάνουν σε εσάς πλήρεις, εξακριβωμένες ή αξιόπιστες. 
 Αυτό δεν σημαίνει ότι δεν θα βρείτε πολύτιμες και εξακριβωμένες πληροφορίες στη Βικιπαίδεια, εντούτοις παρακαλούμε να λάβετε υπ' όψιν ότι  . Αυτά μπορεί να είχαν πρόσφατα αλλάξει, βανδαλιστεί ή μεταβληθεί από κάποιον, η άποψη του οποίου δεν αντιστοιχεί με την τρέχουσα γνώση στον ιδιαίτερο τομέα που σας ενδιαφέρει. 
 Η Βικιπαίδεια δεν αναθεωρείται ομοιόμορφα. Ενώ οι αναγνώστες μπορεί να διορθώσουν τα λάθη ή να αφαιρέσουν τις λανθασμένες προτάσεις, δεν έχουν κανένα νομικό καθήκον να το πράξουν και, ως εκ τούτου, όλες οι πληροφορίες που διαβάζονται εδώ παρέχονται χωρίς οποιαδήποτε υπονοούμενη εγγύηση για οποιονδήποτε σκοπό ή χρήση.
 Καμία επακόλουθη ζημία δεν μπορεί να καταλογιστεί στη Βικιπαίδεια, δεδομένου ότι είναι ελεύθερα αναπτυσσόμενη εθελοντική ένωση ατόμων, που αποσκοπούν να δημιουργήσουν εκπαιδευτικούς, πολιτιστικούς και ενημερωτικούς πόρους ανοιχτού περιεχομένου στο διαδίκτυο. Αυτές οι πληροφορίες παρέχονται σε εσάς δωρεάν και δεν υφίσταται καμία συμφωνία ή συνεννόηση ανάμεσα σε εσάς και τη Βικιπαίδεια σχετικά με τη χρήση ή την τροποποίηση αυτών των πληροφοριών πέρα από την   ούτε είναι κάποιος στη Βικιπαίδεια αρμόδιος να εξετάζει αν κάποιος αλλάξει, διορθώσει, τροποποιήσει ή αφαιρέσει οποιεσδήποτε πληροφορίες μπορεί να εισαγάγετε στη Βικιπαίδεια ή σε οποιοδήποτε από τα σχετικά προγράμματά της.
 Εργαζόμαστε στην ανάπτυξη τρόπων με τους οποίους να επιλέγονται και να προβάλλονται οι πιο αξιόπιστες εκδόσεις των λημμάτων. Ως προς το σύστημα αξιολόγησης, η πλησιέστερη εκδοχή που υπάρχει αυτή την περίοδο είναι τα  , αλλά ακόμη και λήμματα που έχουν εξεταστεί με τις διαδικασίες αυτές μπορεί αργότερα να έχουν υποστεί ακατάλληλη επεξεργασία λίγο προτού τα δείτε.
 
 Παρακαλούμε βεβαιωθείτε ότι κατανοείτε πως οι παρεχόμενες πληροφορίες δίδονται ελεύθερα και ότι κανένα είδος συμφωνίας ή σύμβασης δεν δημιουργείται ανάμεσα σε εσάς και τους ιδιοκτήτες ή χρήστες αυτού του ιστοτόπου, περιλαμβανομένων των ιδιοκτητών των διακομιστών στους οποίους φιλοξενείται, των μεμονωμένων συνεισφερόντων στη Βικιπαίδεια, οποιουδήποτε διαχειριστή, χρήστη ή οποιουδήποτε που   με αυτό το εγχείρημα ή με αδελφικά εγχειρήματα υποκείμενα άμεσα σε αξιώσεις σας εναντίον τους. Σας χορηγείται περιορισμένη άδεια να αντιγράψετε οτιδήποτε από αυτόν τον ιστοχώρο. Αυτό δεν δημιουργεί ούτε υπονοεί οποιαδήποτε συμβατική ή μη ευθύνη εκ μέρους της Βικιπαίδειας ή οποιουδήποτε από τους εκπροσώπους, τα μέλη, τους οργανωτές ή άλλους χρήστες. 
 Οποιαδήποτε εμπορικά σήματα, σήματα υπηρεσιών, σήματα συλλόγων, δικαιώματα σχεδιασμού ή παρόμοια δικαιώματα που αναφέρονται, χρησιμοποιούνται ή μνημονεύονται στα λήμματα της Βικιπαίδειας είναι ιδιοκτησία των αντίστοιχων κατόχων τους. Η χρήση τους εδώ δεν υπονοεί ότι μπορείτε να τα μεταχειριστείτε για οποιονδήποτε άλλον σκοπό εκτός από την ίδια ή παρόμοια ενημερωτική χρήση, όπως προβλέπεται από τους αρχικούς συντάκτες αυτών των λημμάτων. Η Βικιπαίδεια υπόκειται στο πλαίσιο της άδειας χρήσης GFDL. Εκτός αν δηλώνεται διαφορετικά, οι ιστότοποι  και  ούτε εξουσιοδοτούνται ούτε συνδέονται με οποιονδήποτε από τους κατόχους οποιωνδήποτε δικαιωμάτων και επομένως η Βικιπαίδεια δεν μπορεί να χορηγήσει δικαιώματα χρήσης υλικού που προστατεύεται με άλλον τρόπο. 
 Η χρήση οποιασδήποτε τέτοιας ή παρόμοιας άυλης ιδιοκτησίας εκ μέρους σας γίνεται με δική σας ευθύνη. Παρακαλούμε σημειώστε ότι οι πληροφορίες που βρίσκονται εδώ μπορεί να προκαλούν παραβίαση των νόμων της χώρας ή της επικράτειας από την οποία έχετε πρόσβαση σε αυτές. Η Βικιπαίδεια δεν ενθαρρύνει την παραβίαση οποιωνδήποτε νόμων, αλλά εφόσον αυτές οι πληροφορίες αποθηκεύονται σε διακομιστές στην Πολιτεία της   στις  , τηρούνται υπό την προστασία που προσφέρεται από το Σύνταγμα και τους νόμους των Ηνωμένων Πολιτειών. Οι νόμοι στη χώρα σας μπορεί να μην αναγνωρίζουν τόσο ευρεία προστασία της ελεύθερης έκφρασης όσο οι νόμοι των Ηνωμένων Πολιτειών ή οι αρχές στο πλαίσιο του χάρτη των Η.Ε. και, υπό αυτή τη μορφή, η Βικιπαίδεια δεν μπορεί να θεωρηθεί υπεύθυνη για οποιεσδήποτε πιθανές παραβιάσεις τέτοιων νόμων, αν τη συνδέσετε με συγκεκριμένη περιοχή ή χρησιμοποιήσετε οποιεσδήποτε από τις πληροφορίες που περιέχονται εδώ. 
 Αν χρειάζεστε συγκεκριμένες συμβουλές (παραδείγματος χάριν ιατρικές, νομικές, οικονομικές ή διαχείρισης κινδύνου), παρακαλούμε να απευθυνθείτε σε επαγγελματία με κατάλληλη άδεια ή πείρα στον συγκεκριμένο τομέα. Διαβάστε τις σελίδες  ,  ,   για τις ειδικότερες αποποιήσεις. 


URL: https://el.wikipedia.org/wiki/%CE%92%CE%B9%CE%BA%CE%B9%CF%80%CE%B1%CE%AF%CE%B4%CE%B5%CE%B9%CE%B1:%CE%91%CF%80%CE%BF%CF%80%CE%BF%CE%AF%CE%B7%CF%83%CE%B7_%CE%B5%CF%85%CE%B8%CF%85%CE%BD%CF%8E%CE%BD

Content: Η ΒΙΚΙΠΑΙΔΕΙΑ ΔΕΝ ΠΑΡΕΧΕΙ ΕΓΓΥΗΣΗ ΠΟΙΟΤΗΤΑΣ
 Η   είναι διαδικτυακή εγκυκλοπαίδεια ανοικτού κειμένου, δηλαδή εθελοντική ένωση ατόμων και ομάδων που αναπτύσσουν έναν κοινό πόρο ανθρώπινης γνώσης. Η δομή της δίνει τη δυνατότητα σε οποιονδήποτε μπορεί να συνδεθεί στο Διαδίκτυο μέσω ενός προγράμματος περιήγησης ή της εφαρμογής για κινητά της Wikipedia να αλλάξει το περιεχόμενό της. Επομένως, παρακαλούμε να λάβετε υπ' όψιν ότι οι πληροφορίες που βρίσκονται εδώ δεν έχουν απαραιτήτως ελεγχθεί από επαγγελματίες με την απαραίτητη πείρα, ώστε να φτάνουν σε εσάς πλήρεις, εξακριβωμένες ή αξιόπιστες. 
 Αυτό δεν σημαίνει ότι δεν θα βρείτε πολύτιμες και εξακριβωμένες πληροφορίες στη Βικιπαίδεια, εντούτοις παρακαλούμε να λάβετε υπ' όψιν ότι  . Αυτά μπορεί να είχαν πρόσφατα αλλάξει, βανδαλιστεί ή μεταβληθεί από κάποιον, η άποψη του οποίου δεν αντιστοιχεί με την τρέχουσα γνώση στον ιδιαίτερο τομέα που σας ενδιαφέρει. 
 Η Βικιπαίδεια δεν αναθεωρείται ομοιόμορφα. Ενώ οι αναγνώστες μπορεί να διορθώσουν τα λάθη ή να αφαιρέσουν τις λανθασμένες προτάσεις, δεν έχουν κανένα νομικό καθήκον να το πράξουν και, ως εκ τούτου, όλες οι πληροφορίες που διαβάζονται εδώ παρέχονται χωρίς οποιαδήποτε υπονοούμενη εγγύηση για οποιονδήποτε σκοπό ή χρήση.
 Καμία επακόλουθη ζημία δεν μπορεί να καταλογιστεί στη Βικιπαίδεια, δεδομένου ότι είναι ελεύθερα αναπτυσσόμενη εθελοντική ένωση ατόμων, που αποσκοπούν να δημιουργήσουν εκπαιδευτικούς, πολιτιστικούς και ενημερωτικούς πόρους ανοιχτού περιεχομένου στο διαδίκτυο. Αυτές οι πληροφορίες παρέχονται σε εσάς δωρεάν και δεν υφίσταται καμία συμφωνία ή συνεννόηση ανάμεσα σε εσάς και τη Βικιπαίδεια σχετικά με τη χρήση ή την τροποποίηση αυτών των πληροφοριών πέρα από την   ούτε είναι κάποιος στη Βικιπαίδεια αρμόδιος να εξετάζει αν κάποιος αλλάξει, διορθώσει, τροποποιήσει ή αφαιρέσει οποιεσδήποτε πληροφορίες μπορεί να εισαγάγετε στη Βικιπαίδεια ή σε οποιοδήποτε από τα σχετικά προγράμματά της.
 Εργαζόμαστε στην ανάπτυξη τρόπων με τους οποίους να επιλέγονται και να προβάλλονται οι πιο αξιόπιστες εκδόσεις των λημμάτων. Ως προς το σύστημα αξιολόγησης, η πλησιέστερη εκδοχή που υπάρχει αυτή την περίοδο είναι τα  , αλλά ακόμη και λήμματα που έχουν εξεταστεί με τις διαδικασίες αυτές μπορεί αργότερα να έχουν υποστεί ακατάλληλη επεξεργασία λίγο προτού τα δείτε.
 
 Παρακαλούμε βεβαιωθείτε ότι κατανοείτε πως οι παρεχόμενες πληροφορίες δίδονται ελεύθερα και ότι κανένα είδος συμφωνίας ή σύμβασης δεν δημιουργείται ανάμεσα σε εσάς και τους ιδιοκτήτες ή χρήστες αυτού του ιστοτόπου, περιλαμβανομένων των ιδιοκτητών των διακομιστών στους οποίους φιλοξενείται, των μεμονωμένων συνεισφερόντων στη Βικιπαίδεια, οποιουδήποτε διαχειριστή, χρήστη ή οποιουδήποτε που   με αυτό το εγχείρημα ή με αδελφικά εγχειρήματα υποκείμενα άμεσα σε αξιώσεις σας εναντίον τους. Σας χορηγείται περιορισμένη άδεια να αντιγράψετε οτιδήποτε από αυτόν τον ιστοχώρο. Αυτό δεν δημιουργεί ούτε υπονοεί οποιαδήποτε συμβατική ή μη ευθύνη εκ μέρους της Βικιπαίδειας ή οποιουδήποτε από τους εκπροσώπους, τα μέλη, τους οργανωτές ή άλλους χρήστες. 
 Οποιαδήποτε εμπορικά σήματα, σήματα υπηρεσιών, σήματα συλλόγων, δικαιώματα σχεδιασμού ή παρόμοια δικαιώματα που αναφέρονται, χρησιμοποιούνται ή μνημονεύονται στα λήμματα της Βικιπαίδειας είναι ιδιοκτησία των αντίστοιχων κατόχων τους. Η χρήση τους εδώ δεν υπονοεί ότι μπορείτε να τα μεταχειριστείτε για οποιονδήποτε άλλον σκοπό εκτός από την ίδια ή παρόμοια ενημερωτική χρήση, όπως προβλέπεται από τους αρχικούς συντάκτες αυτών των λημμάτων. Η Βικιπαίδεια υπόκειται στο πλαίσιο της άδειας χρήσης GFDL. Εκτός αν δηλώνεται διαφορετικά, οι ιστότοποι  και  ούτε εξουσιοδοτούνται ούτε συνδέονται με οποιονδήποτε από τους κατόχους οποιωνδήποτε δικαιωμάτων και επομένως η Βικιπαίδεια δεν μπορεί να χορηγήσει δικαιώματα χρήσης υλικού που προστατεύεται με άλλον τρόπο. 
 Η χρήση οποιασδήποτε τέτοιας ή παρόμοιας άυλης ιδιοκτησίας εκ μέρους σας γίνεται με δική σας ευθύνη. Παρακαλούμε σημειώστε ότι οι πληροφορίες που βρίσκονται εδώ μπορεί να προκαλούν παραβίαση των νόμων της χώρας ή της επικράτειας από την οποία έχετε πρόσβαση σε αυτές. Η Βικιπαίδεια δεν ενθαρρύνει την παραβίαση οποιωνδήποτε νόμων, αλλά εφόσον αυτές οι πληροφορίες αποθηκεύονται σε διακομιστές στην Πολιτεία της   στις  , τηρούνται υπό την προστασία που προσφέρεται από το Σύνταγμα και τους νόμους των Ηνωμένων Πολιτειών. Οι νόμοι στη χώρα σας μπορεί να μην αναγνωρίζουν τόσο ευρεία προστασία της ελεύθερης έκφρασης όσο οι νόμοι των Ηνωμένων Πολιτειών ή οι αρχές στο πλαίσιο του χάρτη των Η.Ε. και, υπό αυτή τη μορφή, η Βικιπαίδεια δεν μπορεί να θεωρηθεί υπεύθυνη για οποιεσδήποτε πιθανές παραβιάσεις τέτοιων νόμων, αν τη συνδέσετε με συγκεκριμένη περιοχή ή χρησιμοποιήσετε οποιεσδήποτε από τις πληροφορίες που περιέχονται εδώ. 
 Αν χρειάζεστε συγκεκριμένες συμβουλές (παραδείγματος χάριν ιατρικές, νομικές, οικονομικές ή διαχείρισης κινδύνου), παρακαλούμε να απευθυνθείτε σε επαγγελματία με κατάλληλη άδεια ή πείρα στον συγκεκριμένο τομέα. Διαβάστε τις σελίδες  ,  ,   για τις ειδικότερες αποποιήσεις. 


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:General_disclaimer&action=edit

Content: You do not have permission to edit this page, for the following reason:
 
 Return to  .

URL: https://hr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedija:Op%C4%87e_odricanje_od_odgovornosti

Content:  –   –   –  
 W 
  je internetska enciklopedija otvorenog sadržaja koja funkcionira na temelju volonterske suradnje pojedinaca i skupina pojedinaca, s zajedničkim ciljem stvaranja izvora ljudskog znanja. Ustrojstvo projekta omogućava svakoj osobi s vezom na Internet i preglednikom World Wide Weba mijenjanje sadržaja enciklopedije. Molimo shvatite da nijedan podatak koji ovdje pronađete nije nužno provjerio profesionalac, niti ovdjeprisutni mogu osigurati potpunu, točnu ili pouzdanu informaciju.
 To ne znači da u   nećete pribaviti vrijednu i točnu informaciju, naprotiv, najčešće hoćete. Međutim,    Sadržaj članaka može u svakom trenutku izmijeniti, vandalizirati ili preinačiti pojedinac čije mišljenje nije odraz znanja iz tog područja.  
 Trenutno radimo na načinima odabiranja i isticanja pouzdanih inačica članaka. Naša aktivna zajednica urednika pri praćenju i mijenjanju sadržaja koristi alate poput pohrane   i  . No   se ne pregledava ujednačeno, a čitatelji se, iako mogu ispravljati greške, ne nalaze pod pravnom obvezom, pa informacije koje ovdje pročitate nemaju naznačeno jamstvo ispravnosti za bilo kakvo korištenje. Čak i ravnopravno i nepristrano vrednovani ili   zadržavaju vjerojatnost naknadnog neprikladnog uređivanja.
 Molimo, shvatite da doprinose u vidu informacija dajete slobodno, i pritom ne dolazi ni do kakavog sporazuma između vas i vlasnika ili korisnika stranica, vlasnika poslužitelja na kojima su postavljene, pojedinih suradnika  , administratora projekta, "sysopa" ili ikoga tko je   s ovim ili nekim od sestrinskih projekata. Ta ista osoba ne može izravno odgovarati na vaše optužbe. Dodijeljena vam je ograničena licenca s pravom kopiranja cjelokupnog sadržaja ovih stranica, no ona ne podrazumijeva niti dovodi do ugovorne ili izvanugovorne odgovornosti   ili njenih agenata, članova, organizatora ili drugih korisnika.
  u vezi Vašeg korištenja ili modificiranja ovih informacija izvan okvira   licencije i   (GFDL); niti je itko na Wikipediji odgovoran ukoliko netko izmijeni, uredi, promijeni ili ukloni bilo koju informaciju koju ste možda postavili na Wikipediji ili bilo kojem s njom povezanih projekata. 
 Zaštitni znakovi, zbirni i znakovi službe, patentna prava, prava identiteta ili slična spomenuta, korištena ili u Wikipedijinim člancima navedena prava, su imovina svojih vlasnika. Njihova pojavnost na ovim stranicama ne znači da ih možete koristiti za svrhu drugačiju od iste ili slične informacijske namjene, a u skladu s namjerom autora enciklopedijskih članaka u skladu s GFDL dozvolom. Osim ako nije drugačije navedeno,   Wikipedia i Wikimedia ne podržavaju niti su ni na koji način povezani s nositeljima tih prava, pa kao takva   ne jamči pravo na korištenje inače zaštićene građe.  
 Podaci objavljeni u   možda krše zakone države iz koje pregledate te podatke. Wikipedijina baza podataka nalazi se na poslužitelju u  , te se održava u skladu s uputama o čuvanju koje pružaju mjesni i federalni zakoni. Zakonska regulativa u vašoj zemlji možda ne štiti ili ne dopušta istu slobodu govora ili kopiranja.   ne potiče kršenje zakona, niti se može smatrati odgovornom za zlodjela koja proizlaze iz vašeg povezivanja na ovu domenu, korištenja, reprodukcije ili objavljivanja informacija koje ovdje pronađete.
 Ako trebate savjet u nekom području (medicina, pravo, financije, ili vezano uz određeni rizik), molimo potražite stručnjaka koji je licenciran, poznat ili prihvaćen u svom području. Za posebna odricanja pogledajte  ,   i  .
 Zahvaljujemo na vremenu koje ste utrošili na čitanje ove stranice; nastavite uživati u blagodatima  !


URL: https://ny.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 Wikipedia ndi encyclopedia yogwirizana yowonjezera; ndiko kuti, mgwirizano wodzipereka wa anthu ndi magulu omwe akugwira ntchito kuti apange chidziwitso chodziwika cha chidziwitso chaumunthu. Mapangidwe a polojekiti amalola aliyense amene ali ndi intaneti kuti asinthe zomwe zili. Chonde adzalangizidwe kuti palibe chomwe chinapezedwa pano chikuwerengedweratu ndi anthu omwe ali ndi luso lofunikanso kukupatsani chidziwitso chokwanira, cholondola kapena chodalirika.
 Izi sizikutanthauza kuti simungapeze zambiri zamtengo wapatali mu Wikipedia; nthawi yambiri yomwe mukufuna. Komabe,   Zomwe zili m'nkhani iliyonse yapitayi zangosinthidwa, zowonongeka kapena zosinthidwa ndi munthu amene maganizo ake sagwirizana ndi chidziwitso m'madera oyenera . Tawonani kuti ambiri encyclopedia ndi zolemba zina  .
 Gulu lathu lothandizira la olemba ntchito amagwiritsa ntchito zipangizo monga   ndi   amadyetsa kuyang'anira zatsopano ndi zosintha. Komabe, Wikipedia sichiwerengedwanso  ; pamene owerenga akhoza kukonza zolakwa kapena kuchita zosawerengeka  
 
 Chonde onetsetsani kuti mumvetsetsa kuti mfundo zomwe zili pano zikuperekedwa momasuka, komanso kuti palibe mgwirizano kapena mgwirizano womwe umapangidwa pakati pa inu ndi eni kapena ogwiritsira ntchito tsamba ili, eni eni omwe amapereka malowa, munthu Wikipedia ikuthandizira, oyang'anira ntchito iliyonse, sysops kapena wina aliyense amene ali   ndi polojekitiyi kapena ntchito za alongo malinga ndi zomwe mukuzinena motsutsana nawo. Mukupatsidwa chilolezo chochepa chokopera chirichonse pa tsamba ili; sichilenga kapena kutanthawuza udindo uliwonse kapena wodalirika wogwira ntchito pa Wikipedia kapena aliwonse ake, mamembala, okonzekera kapena othandizira ena.
 Pali 'palibe' mgwirizano kapena kumvetsetsa pakati pa inu ndi Wikipedia  
 Zina mwa zizindikiro, zizindikiro zapadera, zizindikiro zapadera, ufulu wolinganiza kapena ufulu wofanana womwe ukutchulidwa, wogwiritsidwa ntchito kapena wotchulidwa m'nkhani za Wikipedia encyclopedia ndizo za eni ake. Kugwiritsa ntchito kwawo pano sikukutanthauza kuti mungagwiritse ntchito pazinthu zina osati zofanana kapena zofanana ndizo zomwe zimagwiritsidwa ntchito ndi olemba oyambirira a ma Wikipedia awa pansi pa CC-BY-SA ndi GFDL. Pokhapokha ngati zinalembedwa pa Wikipedia ndi Wikimedia sites sichivomerezedwa ndizinthu zogwirizana ndi aliyense amene ali ndi ufulu woterewu ndipo Wikipedia silingapereke ufulu uliwonse kugwiritsa ntchito zipangizo zina zotetezedwa. Kugwiritsira ntchito kwanu kapena malo omwewo osapangidwira ali pangozi yanu.
 Wikipedia ili ndi zinthu zomwe zingasonyeze munthu wodziwika yemwe ali wamoyo kapena wakufa posachedwapa. Kugwiritsidwa ntchito kwa mafano a anthu omwe akufa kapena posachedwa ndi, m'madera ena, oletsedwa ndi malamulo okhudzana ndi ufulu wa umunthu, osadalira ufulu wawo. Musanagwiritse ntchito mauthengawa, chonde tsimikizirani kuti muli ndi ufulu wogwiritsa ntchito pansi pa malamulo omwe akugwiritsidwa ntchito pamene mukugwiritsiridwa ntchito.  
 Kufalitsa uthenga wopezeka mu Wikipedia kungakhale kuphwanya malamulo a dziko kapena maulamuliro kumene mukuwona nkhaniyi. Ndalama ya Wikipedia imasungidwa pa seva ku United States of America, ndipo imasungidwa ponena za chitetezo chomwe chimaperekedwa pansi pa malamulo a m'dera lanu. Malamulo mu dziko lanu kapena maulamuliro sangateteze kapena kulola mitundu yofanana ya kulankhula kapena kufalitsa. Wikipedia siilimbikitsa kuphwanya malamulo alionse, ndipo sangakhale ndi mlandu wa kuphwanya malamulowa, ngati mutagwirizanitsa ndi domina kapena ntchitoyi, mubweretsenso kapena kubwezeretsanso zomwe zili pano.
 Ngati mukufuna malangizo enieni (mwachitsanzo, zachipatala, zalamulo, zachuma kapena zoopsa), chonde funsani akatswiri omwe ali ndi chilolezo kapena odziwa mderalo.


URL: https://roa-tara.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 
  è un'enciclopedia online a contenuto aperto, frutto del lavoro di un insieme di volontari, con lo scopo di sviluppare una fonte di conoscenza comune e libera.
Sebbene esistano   e un sistema non ufficiale di gestione anonimo e volontario, la struttura dell'enciclopedia permette a chiunque di modificare il contenuto delle sue pagine.
 È pertanto necessario tenere presente che:
 .
Ciò, naturalmente, non implica la mancanza di informazioni interessanti o accurate, ma è importante sapere che su Wikipedia ogni contenuto può essere modificato, alterato o   da chiunque.
Ciò significa che ogni dato o informazione presente nelle voci di Wikipedia potrebbe non rappresentare adeguatamente l'effettivo stato della conoscenza condivisa o la verità dei fatti.
Alcune edizioni linguistiche di Wikipedia hanno adottato  , ma sempre in forma volontaria e senza garanzia.
La cosa più vicina a questo sistema di selezione è l'attuale sezione « »; tuttavia anche le voci in essa presenti potrebbero essere state successivamente modificate senza il controllo necessario.
 
 Le informazioni riportate sono fornite in maniera libera e gratuita.
Nessun tipo di accordo o contratto sussiste — sia pure in forma implicita — tra l'utente e i proprietari del sito, gli utenti, i proprietari dei server, gli amministratori del progetto, gli amministratori di sistema o qualsiasi altra parte   a Wikipedia o ai progetti collaterali.
 Qualsiasi  , marchio di fabbrica, marchio collettivo, diritto di design, diritto d'immagine, di tutela dei propri dati personali o altri diritti simili, menzionati o utilizzati nelle voci di Wikipedia, è di proprietà dei legittimi detentori.
Tutto il materiale che si trova su Wikipedia è pubblicato dagli utenti (dei quali è conservato l'indirizzo IP a scopo cautelativo) secondo quanto previsto dalle   (CC BY-SA) e   (GFDL).
Wikipedia non può garantire che gli utenti abbiano effettivamente ottemperato a quanto richiesto da dette licenze e non abbiano, quindi, leso alcun diritto: la responsabilità della pubblicazione rimane perciò esclusivamente in capo agli utenti.
Laddove non diversamente dichiarato i siti di Wikipedia e Wikimedia non sono né associati a, né approvati da alcuno dei detentori di tali diritti.
  ed è espressamente vietato.
 È garantita una licenza limitata di copia dei contenuti (secondo le condizioni previste dalle licenze CC BY-SA e GFDL), ma ciò non crea né implica alcuna responsabilità contrattuale o extra-contrattuale da parte di Wikipedia o di uno qualsiasi dei suoi agenti, membri, organizzatori o altre parti.
 
 Le informazioni presenti potrebbero violare delle leggi del luogo di loro fruizione.
Wikipedia non incoraggia le violazioni di legge ma, siccome le informazioni sono conservate su server posti in  , negli  , si assumono a riferimento le disposizioni generali stabilite dal   della   e dalla   delle  .
Alcune legislazioni nazionali potrebbero non accordare una talmente ampia protezione della libertà di parola: Wikipedia non è responsabile per eventuali utilizzi dei propri contenuti considerati illeciti in tali Paesi.
 
 Leggere anche le avvertenze     e   per le liberatorie o per clausole specifiche di esclusione di responsabilità (disclaimer).
  in quanto essa è un'associazione volontaria di individui solo parzialmente strutturata e sviluppata liberamente per creare risorse educative, culturali e informative, online e aperte.
  e   circa il loro utilizzo o modifica, a parte il rispetto delle licenze CC BY-SA e GFDL; parimenti nessuno in Wikipedia è responsabile per il fatto che chicchessia cambi, modifichi o rimuova qualsiasi informazione che chiunque altro o egli medesimo possa aver inserito su Wikipedia o su uno qualsiasi dei suoi progetti associati.
 Il contenuto di questa pagina si applica a   presente in Wikipedia.
 Grazie per il tempo speso per la lettura di queste avvertenze generali, e auguri per una navigazione utile e piacevole su Wikipedia.


URL: https://eo.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikipedio:Malgarantio

Content: Tiu ĉi interreta enciklopedio estas verkata de la publiko. Kvankam preskaŭ ĉiu kunlaboranto provas serioze disponigi ĝustajn informojn, ne eblas tion garantii. Ĉiu kiu kredas esti kompetenta rajtas fari ŝanĝojn je la tekstoj. Ja evidenta eraro ĝenerale sufiĉe rapide de alia kunlaboranto estos rimarkita kaj korektita. Estas tendenco ke artikoloj pliampleksiĝas kaj plikorektiĝas. Ĉar: ju pli da okuloj, des malpli da eraroj.
 Estas ĉiukaze konsilinde krom tiun ĉi enciklopedion ankaŭ konsulti aliajn referencverkojn aŭ librojn pri specifa fako. Atentu specife pri informoj kiuj estas verkitaj de pasiitaj ŝatantoj de certaj personoj, libroj, filmoj, ktp. Povas esti troigoj :-)
 Se vi opinias tekstoparton malĝusta, vi rajtas libere ĝin korekti se vi certas. Se vi dubas kaj volas fari rimarkon pri la artikolo, tion vi povas fari en la diskutopaĝo kiun ĉiu artikolo enhavas. Nepre tion faru por helpi en la plibonigo de Vikipedio!
 La volontuloj kiuj verkas tiun ĉi enciklopedion (tio estas la publiko, do ankaŭ vi) ne akceptas respondecon pri la ĝusteco de la donitaj informoj. Ili ne povas garantii ke la aŭtoro estis sufiĉe atentema verkante la artikolojn. Vi rajtas tutlibere uzi la informojn, sed proprariske.
 Ekzistas uzantoj ( ) kiuj havas kromajn eblecojn je teknika nivelo. Ili rajtas forigi paĝojn, protekti ilin kaj malebligi al uzanto la verkorajton. Estas eblecoj kiujn la ordinaraj kunlaborantoj ne havas. Tiu ĉi grupo de volontuloj ne estas la retejestroj de Vikipedio, sed vi povas ilin kompari kun domgardistoj de la enciklopedio. Estas plenuma funkcio. La ĉiutagan estradon de la Vikipedio praktike iniciatas la komunumo mem.
 Laŭ jura vidpunkto la   estas la sola fina respondeculo. Se laŭ vi estas iu problemo, unue kontaktu administranton de la esperantlingva Vikipedio. Eblas sendi plendo(j)n, en la angla lingvo, al adreso de  .
 Ĉiuj tekstoj en Vikipedio estas licencitaj laŭ la libera permesilo  . Multaj tekstoj estas ankaŭ sub  , se neniu elmetis en ilin verkon el ekster Vikipedio, kiu verko estas sub CC by-sa sed ne sub GFDL. Se vi mem rimarkas tekston kiu devenas de fonto kun alia aŭtorrajto, bv. tion sciigi aŭ mem ŝanĝi la tekston.
 Neteksta materialo ne ĉiam estas libera laŭ CC by-sa aŭ GFDL. Povas ekzisti limigo por ĝia uzo. La uzanto de Vikipedio devas pri tio mem atenti. Klakante je la materialo en Vikipedio vi povas ekscii pri la rajtoj. Se ne estas mencioj pri aŭtoraj rajtoj ĉe la materialo, gravas supozi ke tamen ekzistas rajtoj kaj ke la materialo ne rajtas esti uzata.


URL: https://da.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Generelle_forbehold

Content:  er et   samarbejdsdrevet   og udgøres af en frivillig og åben sammenslutning af enkeltpersoner og grupper, som frit arbejder på at udvikle en fælles open source kundskabsressource af     for at gøre forskelligt  ,   og informativt stof frit tilgængeligt på  . Strukturen i projektet giver alle med en   mulighed for at ændre i indholdet. Vær opmærksom på, at det, der findes her, muligvis ikke er blevet gennemgået af personer med den nødvendige  , indenfor de bestemte emner, der er nødvendige for at levere fuldstændige, korrekte eller pålidelige  .
 Det er ikke ensbetydende med, at der ikke kan findes mange   og nøjagtige informationer i Wikipedia. Men   Indholdet i en given artikel kan for nylig være blevet ændret, udsat for   eller ændret af én person, hvis meninger ikke svarer til den eksisterende viden på de relevante områder. Bemærk, at de fleste andre leksika og opslagsværker også har lignende ansvarsfraskrivelser.
 Der arbejdes på metoder til at udvælge og fremhæve de mest pålidelige versioner af artikler, men det er stadig uden garanti. Et aktiv fællesskab af frivillige bidragsydere bruger   såsom   og   til at overvåge nyt og skiftende indhold, men     Selv artikler, der er blevet undersøgt af en uformel   eller været igennem processen for   kan have gennemgået en nådesløs redigering kort før de bliver læst.
 Ingen af de enkelte skribenter, udgiverne, bidragyderne, samarbejdspartnerne,  , udviklerne, systemoperatørerne, vandalerne,   af Wikipedia eller nogen som helst anden person eller   med tilknytning til Wikipedia, på hvilken måde det end måtte være, kan drages til ansvar for resultaterne eller afledte konsekvenserne af ethvert forsøg på at anvende informationer og eventuelle unøjagtige eller injurierende oplysninger, der præsenteres på eller er forbundet med disse  , eller som nås via   derfra. Enhver brug af oplysninger, uanset om der måtte forekomme unøjagtig eller skødesløs information, vil udelukkende være på eget ansvar.
 Oplysninger fra Wikipedia stilles   og frivilligt til rådighed og at der findes ikke nogen form for aftale eller   mellem dig og   eller   af Wikipedia, ejerne af   som huser Wikipedia, de enkelte Wikipedia bidragydere, nogen som helst af projektets administratorer, system-operatører eller andre, der på en eller anden måde er forbundet med dette projekt eller dets søsterprojekter, der kan begrunde retskrav fra dig direkte. Der gives en begrænset ret til at kopiere fra denne webside, men det skaber ikke eller det omfatter ikke noget som helst kontraktlige eller ekstrakontraktlige erstatningsansvarlige forpligtelser på Wikipedias side eller for nogen af dets repræsentanter, medlemmer,   eller andre brugere.
  vedrørende din brug eller ændring af oplysningerne ud over   (CC-BY-SA 3.0), ligeledes er ingen på Wikipedia ansvarlig, hvis nogen skulle ændre, redigere, modificere eller fjerne nogen af de oplysninger du måtte lægge ind på Wikipedia eller nogen af dens tilknyttede projekter.
 Alle  , servicemærker, fællesmærker,   eller lignende  , der er nævnt, som anvendes eller som refereres til i   på Wikipedia tilhører deres respektive ejere. Deres anvendelse på Wikipedia er ikke ensbetydende med, at de kan bruges til ethvert andet formål end for den samme eller en lignende informativ brug som påtænkt af de oprindelige forfatterne af artiklerne på Wikipedia under licensen   (CC-BY-SA 3.0). Medmindre andet er anført, er Wikipedia eller   hverken støttet eller tilknyttet nogen af indehaverne af sådanne rettigheder, og kan ikke give nogen tilladelse til at bruge ethvert andet beskyttet materiale. Brug af sådanne eller lignende immatrial ejendom er på eget ansvar.
 Wikipedia kan indeholde motiver, der viser en eller flere genkendelige,   eller nyligt    , som i nogle  ,   eller  , kan være begrænset af lovgivning omhandlende beskyttelse af privatlivets fred. Disse regler er uafhængige af billedets   status. Inden dette type indhold benyttes, skal det sikres, at de gældende regler om beskyttelse af privatlivets fred ikke overtrædes og man har ret til at bruge den i henhold til den lovgivning, som gælder i den individuelle planlagte anvendelse. Du er alene ansvarlig for at sikre, at andres privatliv og rettigheder ikke krænkes.
 Offentliggørelse af oplysninger, der findes på Wikipedia, kan være i strid med lovgivningen i det land eller den  , hvor læseren ser disse oplysninger. Informationerne på Wikipedia er lagret på   i     i   (USA) og vedligeholdes med henvisning til de beskyttelser, der ydes i henhold til den lokale og føderale lovgivning. Informationerne er sikret i medfør af De Forenede Staters   første tilføjelse og af   universelle erklæring om  . Loven i dit land eller juristiktion anerkender muligvis ikke den samme form for omfattende beskyttelse af retten til at tale og skrive som De Forenede Staters love eller De Forenede Nationers Charter. Wikipedia tilskynder ikke til overtrædelse af nogen lov og kan i den sammenhæng ikke gøres ansvarlig for eventuelle overtrædelser af sådanne love, i forbindelse med at du linker til dette  , reproducerer eller genbruger nogen af de oplysninger, der findes her, på nogen som helst måde.
 Hvis du har behov for særlig rådgivning (for eksempel af  ,   eller   eller   art) bedes du opsøge en professionel kyndig, som har ret til at drive virksomhed eller som har specialviden på det område. Læs  ,   og   angående specifikke forbehold.


URL: https://th.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B8%A7%E0%B8%B4%E0%B8%81%E0%B8%B4%E0%B8%9E%E0%B8%B5%E0%B9%80%E0%B8%94%E0%B8%B5%E0%B8%A2:%E0%B8%82%E0%B9%89%E0%B8%AD%E0%B8%9B%E0%B8%8F%E0%B8%B4%E0%B9%80%E0%B8%AA%E0%B8%98%E0%B8%84%E0%B8%A7%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%A1%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%B1%E0%B8%9A%E0%B8%9C%E0%B8%B4%E0%B8%94%E0%B8%8A%E0%B8%AD%E0%B8%9A

Content: วิกิพีเดียเป็นสารานุกรมเนื้อหาเสรีที่เกิดจากการร่วมเขียนออนไลน์ นั่นคือ การรวมตัวโดยใจสมัครของปัจเจกบุคคลและกลุ่มทำงานเพื่อพัฒนาทรัพยากรความรู้ของมนุษย์ที่เป็นของส่วนรวม โครงสร้างของวิกิพีเดียเปิดให้ทุกคนที่เชื่อมต่ออินเทอร์เน็ตเปลี่ยนแปลงเนื้อหาได้ โปรดทราบว่าไม่จำเป็นที่เนื้อหาใด ๆ ในวิกิพีเดียนี้จะได้รับการสอบทานจากนักวิชาชีพที่มีความเชี่ยวชาญพอจะนำเสนอสารสนเทศที่ครบถ้วน แม่นยำ หรือเชื่อถือได้แก่คุณ
 ที่กล่าวมาข้างต้น มิใช่ว่าคุณไม่อาจพบสารสนเทศอันทรงคุณค่าและแม่นยำได้จากวิกิพีเดีย อย่างไรก็ดี   เพราะเนื้อหาในแต่ละบทความอาจเพิ่งถูกแก้ไข เปลี่ยนแปลง หรือทำลาย โดยบุคคลผู้มีความเห็นไม่สอดคล้องกับสถานะองค์ความรู้ปัจจุบันในสาขาที่เกี่ยวข้อง หมายเหตุว่า สารานุกรมอื่นและงานอ้างอิงส่วนใหญ่ยังมีข้อปฏิเสธความรับผิดชอบที่คล้ายกัน
 เรากำลังทำงานโดยอยู่ระหว่างการเลือกและเน้นบทความรุ่นที่น่าเชื่อถือ ผู้ใช้วิกิพีเดียได้ใช้เครื่องมือต่าง ๆ เช่น   และ   ในการสังเกตดูเนื้อหาใหม่และเนื้อหาที่มีการเปลี่ยนแปลง อย่างไรก็ตาม ข้อมูลบนวิกิพีเดียไม่ได้รับการตรวจทานเป็นระเบียบเดียวกัน แม้ผู้อ่านจะสามารถแก้ไขข้อผิดพลาดหรือมีส่วนร่วมในการตรวจทานเนื้อหาของบทความเป็นครั้งคราวได้ แต่ผู้อ่านไม่มีหน้าที่ตามกฎหมายที่ต้องปฏิบัติเช่นนั้น ฉะนั้น สารสนเทศทั้งหมดที่ปรากฏอยู่จึงไม่มีการรับรองความเหมาะสมโดยปริยายแก่ความมุ่งหมายหรือการใช้งานใด ๆ ทั้งสิ้น แม้กระทั่งบทความซึ่งผ่านการตรวจสอบอย่างไม่เป็นทางการหรือขบวนการ แล้วก็ยังอาจมีการแก้ไขอย่างไม่เหมาะสมภายหลังก่อนหน้าที่คุณมาอ่านก็เป็นได้
 
 พึงให้แน่ใจว่า คุณเข้าใจว่า สารสนเทศที่วิกิพีเดียให้บริการนี้ได้รับการจัดหามาอย่างเสรี และไม่มีการทำความตกลงหรือสัญญาใด ๆ ระหว่างคุณกับเจ้าของหรือผู้ใช้ของเว็บไซต์นี้ เจ้าของเซิร์ฟเวอร์ที่จัดเก็บวิกิพีเดีย ผู้ประพันธ์วิกิพีเดียปัจเจกบุคคล ผู้บริหารระบบ ผู้ดูแลระบบของโครงการ หรือใครก็ตามที่เกี่ยวข้องทางหนึ่งทางใดกับโครงการนี้หรือโครงการพี่น้องที่ขึ้นอยู่กับข้อเรียกร้องของคุณต่อพวกเขาโดยตรง คุณได้รับสัญญาอนุญาตที่จำกัดในการคัดลอกทุกอย่างในเว็บไซต์นี้ สัญญาอนุญาตนั้นมิได้สร้างหรือระบุความรับผิดตามสัญญาหรือนอกเหนือสัญญาในส่วนของวิกิพีเดีย หรือตัวแทน สมาชิก ผู้จัดทำหรือผู้ใช้อื่นของวิกิพีเดีย
 ต่อการใช้หรือการแก้ไขเพิ่มเติมสารสนเทศนี้ของคุณนอกเหนือไปจาก  และ    ไม่มีผู้ใดที่เกี่ยวข้องกับวิกิพีเดียต้องรับผิดชอบหากมีผู้ใดเปลี่ยนแปลง แก้ไข แก้ไขเพิ่มเติม หรือนำออกซึ่งสารสนเทศใด ๆ ที่คุณอาจโพสต์บนวิกิพีเดียหรือโครงการที่เกี่ยวข้อง
  เครื่องหมายบริการ เครื่องหมายร่วม และสิทธิในการออกแบบและสิทธิที่คล้ายกันใด ๆ ซึ่งมีการพาดพิง ใช้ หรืออ้างอิงในบทความของสารานุกรมวิกิพีเดียเป็นทรัพย์สินของเจ้าของเครื่องหมายและสิทธินั้น ๆ การใช้เครื่องหมายและสิทธิในวิกิพีเดียมิได้หมายความว่า คุณสามารถใช้เครื่องหมายและสิทธิเพื่อความมุ่งหมายอื่นนอกเหนือไปจากการใช้เชิงสารสนเทศดังเช่นผู้ประพันธ์ต้นฉบับของบทความวิกิพีเดียเหล่านี้ภายใต้แผนสัญญาอนุญาต CC-BY-SA และ GFDL เว้นแต่ระบุไว้เป็นอย่างอื่น เว็บไซต์วิกิพีเดียและวิกิมีเดียมิได้รับอนุญาตอย่างเป็นทางการจากหรือสังกัดกับผู้ถือครองสิทธิดังกล่าว ฉะนั้น วิกิพีเดียไม่อาจให้สิทธิใด ๆ ที่จะใช้ทรัพย์สินที่ได้รับการคุ้มครองได้ การใช้ทรัพย์สินที่ไม่มีรูปร่างดังกล่าวหรือที่คล้ายกันเป็นความเสี่ยงของคุณเอง
 วิกิพีเดียมีวัตถุซึ่งแสดงบุคคลที่พิสูจน์รูปพรรณได้ที่ยังมีชีวิตอยู่หรือเพิ่งเสียชีวิตไปเมื่อไม่นานมานี้ การใช้ภาพของปัจเจกบุคคลที่ยังมีชีวิตอยู่หรือเพิ่งเสียชีวิตนั้น ถูกจำกัดโดยกฎหมายเกี่ยวกับสิทธิส่วนบุคคลในบางเขตอำนาจศาล เป็นเอกเทศจากสถานะลิขสิทธิ์ ก่อนใช้เนื้อหาประเภทนี้ โปรดศึกษาให้แน่ใจว่า คุณมีสิทธิที่จะใช้วัตถุนั้นภายใต้กฎหมายซึ่งบังคับใช้ในพฤติการณ์การใช้ที่คุณเจตนา คุณรับผิดชอบแต่เพียงผู้เดียวหากคุณละเมิดสิทธิส่วนบุคคลของผู้อื่น
 การเผยแพร่สารสนเทศในวิกิพีเดียอาจละเมิดกฎหมายของประเทศหรือเขตอำนาจศาลที่คุณกำลังชมสารสนเทศนี้อยู่ ฐานข้อมูลวิกิพีเดียถูกเก็บรักษาบนเซิร์ฟเวอร์ในรัฐฟลอริดา สหรัฐอเมริกา และคงไว้ตามความคุ้มครองที่กฎหมายท้องถิ่นและของสหรัฐให้ วิกิพีเดียไม่สนับสนุนการละเมิดกฎหมายใด ๆ และไม่สามารถรับผิดชอบต่อการละเมิดกฎหมายเช่นนั้นได้ในกรณีใด ๆ หากคุณลิงก์มายังโดเมนนี้ หรือใช้ ทำซ้ำหรือเผยแพร่ซ้ำซึ่งสารสนเทศซึ่งมีอยู่ในวิกิพีเดีย
 หากคุณกำลังมองหาคำแนะนำ (เช่น ทางการแพทย์ กฎหมาย การเงิน หรือการจัดการความเสี่ยง) โปรดมองหาผู้เชี่ยวชาญซึ่งมีความรู้หรือใบอนุญาตในท้องที่ของคุณ


URL: https://id.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Penyangkalan_umum

Content: Wikipedia adalah ensiklopedia isi terbuka dalam jaringan yang kolaboratif. Artinya, Wikipedia merupakan sekumpulan individu dan kelompok yang bekerja sukarela dalam membangun sumber daya bersama berupa pengetahuan umat manusia. Struktur proyeknya memungkinkan siapa saja yang memiliki sambungan Internet untuk mengubah isinya. Harap diketahui bahwa semua yang ada di sini belum ditinjau oleh orang-orang dengan keahlian yang dibutuhkan untuk menyajikan informasi yang lengkap, akurat, dan tepercaya.
 Hal tersebut tidak berarti bahwa Anda tidak dapat menemukan informasi berharga dan akurat di Wikipedia. Anda akan sering menemukannya. Akan tetapi,  . Isi artikel mana pun mungkin baru saja diubah, dirusak, atau diganti oleh seseorang yang opininya tidak sesuai dengan pengetahuan di bidang yang terkait. Harap diingat bahwa kebanyakan ensiklopedia dan karya referensi lainnya  .
 Komunitas penyunting kami yang aktif menggunakan perangkat seperti   dan   untuk mengawasi penambahan dan perubahan isi. Namun, Wikipedia tidak mendapat penilaian sejawat secara merata. Walaupun para pembaca dapat memperbaiki kesalahan atau terlibat dalam proses   ( ) biasa, mereka tidak punya kewajiban hukum untuk melakukannya sehingga semua informasi yang disajikan di sini tidak disertai jaminan kelayakan untuk keperluan atau penggunaan apa pun. Bahkan, artikel yang telah melalui proses penilaian sejawat informal atau   bisa saja telah disunting secara tidak benar tepat sebelum Anda membacanya.
 
 Harap yakinkan bahwa Anda mengerti bahwa informasi yang ada di sini disediakan secara secara bebas dan tidak ada perjanjian atau kontrak yang dibuat antara Anda dan para pemilik atau pengguna situs ini, pemilik server yang ditempati, individu kontributor Wikipedia, pengurus proyek, atau siapa pun yang dengan cara apa pun   dengan proyek ini atau proyek kerabatnya yang dapat dijadikan dasar untuk melakukan tuntutan secara langsung terhadap mereka. Anda diberikan suatu lisensi terbatas untuk menyalin apa pun dari situs ini; hal tersebut tidak menyebabkan suatu kewajiban kontraktual atau ekstrakontraktual bagi pihak Wikipedia, agen, anggota, penyelenggara, atau pengguna lain.
  mengenai penggunaan atau modifikasi informasi ini di bawah   ( , GFDL); juga tidak ada seseorang di Wikipedia yang bertanggung jawab jika seseorang mengubah, menyunting, memodifikasi, atau membuang informasi apa pun yang mungkin Anda masukkan di Wikipedia atau proyek lain yang berhubungan.
 Segala bentuk merek dagang, merek jasa, merek kolektif, dan hak desain atau hak-hak semacamnya yang disebutkan, digunakan, ataupun dikutip di artikel apa pun di ensiklopedia Wikipedia adalah hak milik (properti) dari pemiliknya masing-masing. Penggunannya di sini tidak berarti bahwa Anda (pembaca) dapat menggunakannya untuk kepentingan apa pun selain dari penggunaan yang sama atau mirip, yaitu penggunaan secara informasional sebagaimana yang dikehendaki oleh para penulis di artikel Wikipedia tersebut di bawah  .
 Kecuali disebutkan sebaliknya, maka situs-situs Wikipedia dan Wikimedia tidak mempromosikan dan tidak terafiliasi dengan pemilik merek dan hak-hak di atas, sehingga Wikipedia tidak dapat memberikan izin untuk menggunakan materi-materi yang dilindungi tersebut. Jika Anda menggunakannya, maka Anda menggunakannya dengan risiko sendiri.
 Wikipedia mengandung materi-materi yang mungkin menampilkan wajah dan penampakan seseorang yang masih hidup atau yang baru saja meninggal. Penggunakan gambar, foto, dan materi sejenisnya dari individu yang masih hidup maupun baru saja meninggal, di beberapa yuridiksi hukum, dibatasi oleh hukum terkait  , yang independen atau terlepas dari status hak ciptanya (pembuatan fotonya).
 Sebelum menggunakan konten sejenis ini, mohon pastikan bahwa Anda (pembaca) memiliki hak untuk menggunakannya di bawah hukum perundang-undangan yang berlaku di tempat Anda untuk kepentingan yang Anda maksudkan.  
 Publikasi informasi yang ditemukan di Wikipedia mungkin melanggar hukum negara atau yurisdiksi di wilayah tempat Anda membaca informasi ini. Pangkalan data Wikipedia disimpan di peladen yang berlokasi di Amerika Serikat, dan berada dalam perlindungan hukum lokal dan federal setempat. Hukum di negara atau yurisdiksi Anda mungkin tidak melindungi atau mengizinkan pembicaraan atau distribusi yang serupa. Wikipedia tidak mendorong pelanggaran hukum apa pun dan tidak dapat dikenai tanggung jawab untuk segala pelanggaran hukum tersebut jika Anda menghubungkan ke ranah ( ) ini atau menggunakan, mereproduksi, atau menerbitkan ulang informasi yang tercantum di sini.
 Jika Anda mencari nasihat spesifik (contohnya medis, legal, keuangan, atau manajemen risiko), silakan cari seorang profesional yang berlisensi atau memiliki pengetahuan pada bidang tersebut.
  Kebanyakan pengajar dan pekerja profesional tidak mengakui penggunaan   (seperti ensiklopedia) sebagai sumber informasi satu-satunya—memasukkan ensiklopedia sebagai rujukan penting di bagian catatan kaki atau daftar pustaka akan mengakibatkan tulisan Anda dicoret atau diturunkan nilainya. Gunakan artikel Wikipedia untuk mencari informasi dasar, makna kata dan istilah pencarian, serta acuan awal sebelum melakukan penelitian lebih lanjut.
 Seperti sumber informasi yang ditulis masyarakat umum lainnya, selalu ada potensi kekeliruan di dalam artikel Wikipedia—bandingkan informasi yang Anda dapat dengan sumber-sumber lain dan baca   kami untuk ketentuan lebih lanjut.
 (Pesan di atas ditampilkan setiap kali pembaca mengeklik   di suatu halaman )
  
 Dasar-dasar Wikipedia
 Prinsip dasar dalam sejarah
 Ringkasan konvensi Wikipedia
 Berlaku di semua proyek (di meta-wiki)
 Daftar lengkap kebijakan resmi
  


URL: https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Impressum

Content: „Wikipedia – Die freie Enzyklopädie“ ist im Internet unter   zu finden, die deutschsprachige Ausgabe unter  .
 Anbieterin dieser Website ist die  , eingetragen beim   unter der Nummer N03000005323. Die Wikimedia Foundation ist eine Stiftung nach dem Recht des US-Bundesstaates  . Die verantwortliche Ansprechperson – gleichzeitig   im Sinne des   – ist Stephen LaPorte.
 
 Bei Fragen und Interviewwünschen können Sie sich auf informeller Basis auch gerne an die aktiven deutschsprachigen Ansprechpartner wenden, siehe   und  .
 Wikipedia ist eine freie  . Nähere Informationen zum Projekt erfahren Sie auf der Seite   sowie im  . Die Bezeichnung „frei“ bedeutet dabei, dass Wikipedia-Inhalte   sind. Demnach ist die private oder kommerzielle Verwendung und Weitergabe der in Wikipedia enthaltenen Texte – sofern die Bestimmungen der   oder der   eingehalten werden – gestattet. Für hochgeladene Mediendateien, insbesondere Bilder, können unterschiedliche freie Lizenzen gelten, die auf den Dateibeschreibungsseiten angegeben sind. Diese sind gesondert zu beachten, siehe auch  .
 Bitte beachten Sie die ausführlichen   der Wikimedia Foundation.
 Beachten Sie bitte die verbindliche    und die weiteren Hinweise zum Datenschutz der Wikimedia Foundation.
 Die Wikipedia-Autoren sind aufgerufen, alle Inhalte, die sie zu dieser Website beisteuern, nach   zu erstellen. Die Inhalte der Wikipedia entstehen gemeinschaftlich, offen und ohne direkte redaktionelle Begleitung und Kontrolle. Praktisch jeder Inhalt kann jederzeit durch jedermann verändert werden. Insbesondere können Werke, die unter dem Verdacht stehen, Urheber-, Verwertungs-, Persönlichkeits- oder sonstige Rechte zu verletzen, unmittelbar ohne Rücksprache jederzeit korrigiert bzw. gelöscht werden. Jeder   ist für die von ihm erstellten Beiträge selbst in vollem Umfang verantwortlich. Einen Ausschluss einzelner Benutzer behält sich die Anbieterin ausdrücklich vor.
 Auf Grund der offenen Struktur der Wikipedia und der häufigen Änderungen ihrer Inhalte ist es möglich, dass Sie hier auf unrichtige, unvollständige, veraltete, widersprüchliche, in falschem Zusammenhang stehende oder verkürzte Angaben treffen. Die enzyklopädischen Artikel der Wikipedia dienen des Weiteren der allgemeinen Bildung und Weiterbildung, nicht der Beratung im Falle individueller Anliegen. Es kann deshalb keine Verantwortung für Schäden übernommen werden, die durch das Vertrauen auf die Inhalte dieser Website oder deren Gebrauch entstehen. Bitte beachten Sie auch die gesonderten   und  .
 Die als   oder „Sysop“ bezeichneten Benutzer der Wikipedia sowie die Benutzer mit sonstigen erweiterten Rechten sind keine offiziellen Vertreter der Website-Anbieterin, sondern lediglich Benutzer, denen weitergehende technische Möglichkeiten eingeräumt wurden. Diese Personen helfen in der Regel gern und schnell bei eventuellen Fragen oder Beanstandungen, sind jedoch nicht persönlich für diese Website – insbesondere nicht im Hinblick auf Richtigkeit, Aktualität und Vollständigkeit der zur Verfügung gestellten Informationen – verantwortlich.
 Die Website-Anbieterin weist auf allen Eingabeseiten darauf hin, kein Material zu verwenden, das   Dritter unterliegt. Bei der sehr großen Zahl der in deutscher Sprache vorliegenden elektronischen und vor allem schriftlichen Publikationen kann aber nicht ausgeschlossen werden, dass von Benutzern dennoch unbefugt Material eingebracht wird, das bestehende Schutzrechte verletzt und das nicht sofort als solches erkannt wird.
 Wenn der Anbieterin eine entsprechende Urheberrechtsverletzung angezeigt wird, wird das betreffende Material umgehend entfernt. Offizieller Ansprechpartner für solche Fälle sind die nach US-amerikanischem Recht bestimmten   von Wikimedia.
 Alternativ können Sie sich auf informeller Basis auch an eine Gruppe von aktiven deutschsprachigen Benutzern wenden, die Sie unter   erreichen. Die E-Mail sollte den betroffenen Inhalt in Wikipedia genau bezeichnen (bitte immer URL und ggf. konkreten Abschnitt angeben) sowie die Publikation oder Website nennen, aus der das Material unberechtigt übernommen wurde.
 


URL: https://te.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B0%B5%E0%B0%BF%E0%B0%95%E0%B1%80%E0%B0%AA%E0%B1%80%E0%B0%A1%E0%B0%BF%E0%B0%AF%E0%B0%BE:%E0%B0%AE%E0%B0%AE%E0%B1%8D%E0%B0%AE%E0%B0%B2%E0%B1%8D%E0%B0%A8%E0%B0%BF_%E0%B0%95%E0%B0%B2%E0%B0%B5%E0%B0%82%E0%B0%A1%E0%B0%BF

Content:  లో వివిధ విషయాలకు సంబంధించి మమ్మల్ని కలవడం కొరకు అవసరమైన సమాచారం ఈ పేజీ లో లభిస్తుంది. 
 కొత్త వ్యాసం ఎవరైనా రాయవచ్చు. ముందుగా, దిద్దుబాటు యొక్క   తెలుసుకోవాలి.   కూడా తెలుసుకోవాలి. ఇవన్నీ తెలుసుకున్న తరువాత,   తో కొత్త పేజీని మొదలు పెట్టవచ్చు. ఇంకా సహాయం కావాలంటే,   ఉండనే ఉంది. 
 వికీపీడియా కు ఒక కొత్త వ్యాస విషయాన్ని సూచించ దలస్తే,   పేజీ లో చెయ్యవచ్చు. ఆ పేజీ లో విషయ సూచిక ఉంది, మీ సూచనను అక్కడ చేర్చవచ్చు.
 వికీపీడియా వ్యాసాలను ఎవరైనా సరిదిద్దవచ్చు. పేజీ లో తప్పు గమనిస్తే ఆ పేజీ కి పైన ఉన్న   లింకును నొక్కండి. అప్పుడు వచ్చే దిద్దుబాటు పేజీ లోని టెక్స్ట్‌ బాక్స్‌ లో తప్పును సరిదిద్దండి. దిద్దుబాట్లు చేసేటపుడు,  ను కూడా జత చేయండి. దిద్దుబాటు పై సహాయం కావాలంటే,   చదవండి. 
 వ్యాసాన్ని మెరుగు పరచడం పై చర్చించడానికి   వెళ్ళ్ళండి. వ్యాసం పేజీ కి వెళ్ళి, అక్కడ "చర్చ" ను నొక్కితే చర్చా పేజీ కి వెళ్ళవచ్చు. సభ్యులతో విడిగా మాట్లాడాలంటే, వారి   కి వెళ్ళాలి. సభ్యుని పేరును నొక్కితే, సదరు సభ్యుని పేజీ కి వెళ్తారు, అక్కడ "చర్చ" నొక్కితే, ఆ సభ్యుని చర్చా పేజీ కి వెళ్తారు. అక్కడ మీరు చేసే మార్పు చేర్పులు, ఆ సభ్యుడు లాగిన్‌ కాగానే కనిపిస్తాయి.
 వికీపీడియా లో ఎవరైనా రాయవచ్చు కాబట్టి, ఇక్కడ దుశ్చర్యలు జరగటం సహజమే. వికీపీడియా లో దుశ్చర్య అంటే, వ్యాసాన్ని చెడగొట్టే ఉద్దేశ్యంతో పనికిరాని చెత్తను పేజీల్లో పెట్టడం. మీరు ఏ పేజీ లో నైనా దుశ్చర్య ను గమనిస్తే   పాటించి, వ్యాసాన్ని పూర్వపు కూర్పుకు తీసుకొని పోవచ్చు. తరువాత కూడా ఆ సభ్యుడు అటువంటి దుశ్చర్యలు చేస్తూ ఉంటే, ఇతర సభ్యులను ఈ విషయమ్పై అప్రమత్తం చెయ్యండి. దీని కొరకు మీరు ఈ పేజీ లను చూడండి:    
 అప్పుడు, అవసరమైతే,   ఆ దుష్టుని  , సభ్యత్వాన్ని నిషేధించుతారు. 
 ఒక పేజీ ని పూర్తిగా తొలగించవలసి ఉందని మీరు భావిస్తే, పైగా అది వికీపీడియా   అనుగుణంగా ఉందని అనుకుంటే,   పేజీ లో ప్రతిపాదించండి. ఆ పేజీలో, అడుగున, తొలగింపు కొరకు ఎలా ప్రతిపాదించాలో వివరణ ఉంది. ఏదైనా పేజీని అన్యాయంగా తొలగించారని మీరు భావిస్తే,   లో మీ వాదనను వినిపించండి. 
 వికీపీడియా సభ్యుని గురించి తెలుసుకోవడానికి, ఆ సభ్యుని పేరును నొక్కండి; వారి   కి వెళ్తారు. ఏ సభ్యుని తోనైనా చర్చించాలంటే, ఆ సబ్యుని పేజీలో   ను నొక్కండి. కొంతమంది సభ్యులు వికీపీడియా ద్వారా ఈ-మెయిల్స్‌ ను అనుమతిస్తారు. అటువంటి సభ్యుని పేజీ లో, తెరకు ఎడమ అడుగు భాగంలో "E-mail this user" అనే లింకు కనిపిస్తుంది. కొంత మంది సభ్యులు ఇంకొంత సమాచారం కూడా (ఈ-మెయిల్‌, తక్షణ సందేశం, ఫోను మొదలైనవి) తమ పేజీలో ఇస్తారు. 
 చాలా మంది సభ్యులను ఒకేసారి సంప్రదించాలనుకుంటే, మీరు   లలో సభ్యత్వం తీసుకుని అక్కడ సందేశం ఇవ్వవచ్చు, లేదా   వద్ద చర్చించవచ్చు. సందేశాల సంగ్రహం నుండి పాత సందేశాలను చూడవచ్చు కూడా. 
 
 వికీపీడియా గురించిన సమాచారం కొరకు   ఒక మంచి వనరు. ప్రతీ పేజీ కి (వ్యాసం పేజీలు, విధాన పేజీలు, సభ్యుని పేజీలు) కూడా దాని చర్చా పేజీ ఉంది. ఒక విషయానికి లేదా సభ్యునికి సంబంధించిన సమాచారం కొరకు, ఈ చర్చా పేజీయే సరియైన స్థానం. 
 ఇది కాకుండా, సాధారణ ప్రశ్నలకు 4 ప్రదేశాలు ఉన్నాయి: 
 పై స్థలాల్లో మీ ప్రశ్నను అడిగిన తరువత కొన్ని రోజుల పాటు, క్రమం తప్పకుండా ఆ పేజీని సమాధానాల కొరకు చూస్తూండండి. 
 వికీమీడియా ఫౌండేషన్‌ కూ సంనంధించిన వివరాలకై (వాటి కొరకు మాత్రమే)   కు ఈ-మెయిల్‌ చెయ్యండి. 
 విలేకరులు మరియు ఇతర ఆసక్తి పరులు   ఈ-మెయిల్‌ పంపవచ్చు. మీరు ఈ జాబితాలో సభ్యులు కాకపోతే మీ ఈ-మెయిల్‌ ను నిర్వాహకుడు అనుమతించవలసి ఉంటుంది. మీరు చాలా ఈ-మెయిల్‌ లు పంపాలనుకుంటే సభ్యత్వ వివరాల కొరకు   ను చూడండి. 
 వికీపీడియన్లను సంప్రదించదలిస్తే,   మరియు   లను చూడండి. 
 మీకు పత్రికా సమాచార సేకరణ అవసరమైతే, పైగా మీరు విలేకరి  , మీరు టెర్రీ ఫూట్‌ ను +1 727 231 0101 లో సంప్రదిస్తే ఆయన మిమ్మల్ని   కు కలుపుతారు. లేదా మీరు జిమ్మీ కి సరాసరి వికీ.చొమ వద్ద ఈ-మెయిల్‌ పంపవచ్చు. ఆ ఫోనును   పత్రికా విచారణలకే వాడండి. వేరే వటికి దానిని వాడ రాదు. 
 వికీమీడియా ఫౌండేషన్‌ పత్రికా అధికారి వివరాలకై   చూడండి. 
 వికీపీడియా విధానాల పై చర్చ   వద్ద చెయ్యవచ్చు. 
 కొన్నిసార్లు దుశ్చర్యల కారణంగా   ను నిషేధించ వలసి రావచ్చు (పైన చూడండి). అయితే, ఒక్కోసారి, వేరే వాళ్ళు కూడా అదే అడ్రసును వాడుతూ ఉండవచ్చు.
 ఒకవేళ అదే మీరయితే, మీరు దిద్దుబాట్లు జరపబోయినపుడు ఎదురైన సందేశం లోని సూచనలను పాటించండి. లేదా   లోని నిర్వాహకులను సంప్రదించవచ్చు.(ఈ-మెయిల్‌ లింకు ఉన్న నిర్వాహకులకు ఈ-మెయిల్‌ పంపవచ్చు). లేదా మీ సభ్యుని చర్చా పేజీలో సందేశం పెట్టండి (సాధారణంగా మీ సభ్యుని చర్చా పేజీ పనిచేస్తూనే ఉంటుంది). 
 మీకు కాపీ హక్కు ఉన్న వ్యాసం మీ అనుమతి లేకుండా వికీపీడియా లో వాడితే   చెయ్యవచ్చు. మరింత సమాచారానికై  చూడండి. 
 కాపీ హక్కుల అతిక్రమణ అని మీరు     ఉన్న సూచనలను పాటించండి. 
 వికీపీడియా లోని వ్యాసాలను వాడుకోవడానికి అనుమతి కావాలా? ( ) ఇప్పటికే మీకా అనుమతి - వ్యాపార ప్రయోజనాల కోసం కూడా - ఇచ్చేసింది. అయితే, మీరు లైసెన్సు నిబంధనలను పాటించాలి. వివరాలకు   చూడండి.


URL: https://cy.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wicipedia:Gwadiad_Cyffredinol

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 I CYFIEITHU:
 P  R  T  S  B  C  B  L  T  P  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable, but still without warranty, versions of articles. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the  ; neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://cy.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wicipedia:Gwadiad_Cyffredinol

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 I CYFIEITHU:
 P  R  T  S  B  C  B  L  T  P  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable, but still without warranty, versions of articles. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the  ; neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://ilo.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Sapasap_a_renunsia

Content: 
 Ti Wikipedia ket maysa nga online nga addaan ti nawaya ken silulukat a linaon ken nagtitinnulungan nga ensiklopedia, daytoy ket sitatallugod dagiti gunglo ken bunggoy nga agub-obra nga agparang-ay ti maysa a kadawyan a pamuspusan ti pannakaammo ti nagtagitaoan.
 Saan nga ibagbaga a saan ka a makabiruk ti napateg ken agpayso a pakaammo ditoy Wikipedia; adun to a darikmat a makabirukam ditoy. Nupay kasta,   Ti linaon ti ania man a maysa a naited nga artikulo ket mabalin a nasukatan, na-bandelismo wenno binaliwan ti sinoman nga addaan ti kapanunotan a saan nga agpada iti kasasad ti pannakaammo kadagiti maipaay a paset. Ipaammo a kaaduan kadagiti ensiklopedia ken ob-obra a pagibasaran ket addaan da ti kastoy a kapadpada a  . 
 Agub-obra kami ti sabsabali a banag ken waya ti panagpili kadagiti mapagtalken a bersion dagiti artikulo. Dagiti nasiglat nga agur-urnos iti daytoy a komunidad ket agus-usar da kadagiti ramramit a kas dagiti   ken   tapno masiputan da dagiti baro ken nasuksukatan a linaon. Nupay kasta, ti Wikipedia ket saan nga agpapada a mairepaso; bayat a dagiti agbasbasa ket mabalin da nga agpalaing kadagiti biddut wenno makitulag da ti kadawyan a pangrepaso, awanen da ti linteg nga agaramid ken isu a dagiti pakaammo a mabasa ditoy ket awan ti maipaltiing a garantia iti maitutop para iti ania man a maipanggep wenno ania man a panagusar. Uray dagita artikulo a naipatalgedan ti saan a pormal a panagrepaso wenno dagiti panagaramid kadagiti napili nga artikulo, mabalin a madi wenno saan a nasayaat ti pannakabaliw wenno pannaka-urnos da sakbay a kinitam dagitoy.
 
 Pangngaasi a maawatam a ti pakaammo a naited ditoy ket nawaya a maiwarwaras, ken awan ti ania man a tulag wenno kontrato a naaramid baetan kenka ken dagiti akinkukua weno agus-usar iti daytoy a pagsaadan, dagiti akinkukua kadagiti servers a nakaibalayan da, ti agmaymaysa a tao a nagparawad iti Wikipedia, dagiti sinoman nga administrador ti gandat, dagiti sysop wenno sinoman nga   iti daytoy a gandat wenno dagiti kakabsat na a gandat kadagiti panagtutunton mo a panagsupiat kaniada a naidagus. Naipaayan ka ti napatinggaan a lisensia ti agkopia ti ania man manipud iti daytoy a pagsaadan; saan a maka-aramid wenno agipaltiing ti ania man a kontrato wenno mainayon a kontrato a mairebbengan a naibagi ti Wikipedia wenno annia kadigiti ahente, kam-kameng, dagiti agu-ornos wenno dagiti sabsabali nga agus-usar.
 Ti ania man kadagiti marka ti pabrika, marmarka ti serbisio, naur-urnong a marmarka ti karkarbengan dagiti daremdem wenno kapadpada na a karkarbengan a naibaga, nga nausar wenno nadakamat kadagiti artikulo iti Wikipedia nga ensiklopedia ket kabukbukodan dagiti agtagikua. Ti panagusar kadagitoy ket saan nga agibagbaga a mausar mo iti ania man a panggep ngem ti laeng kapadpada na, wenno kapada na a pannakaammo a panagusar a naimatangan babaen dagiti kasisigud a nagsurat iti dagitoy nga artikulo ti Wikipedia a naisakupan babaen ti   (CC-BY-SA) ken   (GFDL) a panag-lisensia. Malaksid no saan nga naibaga ti Wikipedia ken Wikipedia a pagsasaadan ket saan a bigbigen wenno kumadua kadagiti ania man nga agtengtengngel kadagiti karbengan ken ti Wikepedia ket saan a makaited kadagiti karbengan a mausar kadagiti nasalakniban a materiales. Ti panagusar mo kadagitoy wenno ti kapadpadana a materiales a sanikua ti kampania ket adda kaniamon a panag-peggad.
 Ti Wikipedia ket naglaon kadagiti materiales a mabalin nga agiladawan ti saan a mainaganan a tao a sibibiag wenno katkatay laeng. Ti panagusar kadagiti imahen iti sibibiag wenno katkatay a tat-tao ket, iti dadduma a naisakupan, maiparit babaen ti linteg a maipanggep kadagiti karbengan ti peronalidad, a nawayaan manipud kadagiti kaniada a karbengan a kasasaad. Sakbay nga agusar kadagitoy a kita ti linaon, pangngaasi nga addaan ka ti karbengan nga agusar babaen kadagiti linteg a maidangep ti pasamak a panggepen ti panagusar mo.  
 Ti panagipablaak iti pannakaammo a mabirukan iti Wikipedia ket mabalin a makalabsing kadagiti linteg iti pagilian wenno nakaisakupan manipud ti panag-buybuyam iti datoy a pannakaammo. Ti Wikipedia database ket naipenpen iti server idiay Estado iti   iti  , ken naitaripatuan a nai-reperensia iti panagsalaknib a naited babaen ti lokal ken federal a linteg. Dagiti linteg iti pagiliam wen naisakupan ket mabalin a saan nga agsalaknib wenno agipalubos ti kapadpadana a kita ti bitla wenno panagiwarwaras. Ti Wikipedia ket saan na a paregtaen ti agpalabsing kadagiti ania man a linteg; ken saan nga akinrebbeng ti ania man a panaglabsing ti kasta a linteg, no agsilpo ka iti daytoy a pagturayan wenno agusar, alagaden, wenno agipablaak ti pannakaammo a linaon ditoy.
 No masapul mo ti naisangayan a bagbagaan (kas pagarigan, panagagas, linteg, busbos, wenno panagtaripatu ti peggad) pangngaasi nga agbiruk ka ti propesional wenno dagiti makaammo iti dayta a disso.


URL: https://cs.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedie:Vylou%C4%8Den%C3%AD_odpov%C4%9Bdnosti

Content: 
 
  je otevřená internetová encyklopedie, tzn. seskupení dobrovolníků, kteří vytvářejí databázi lidského vědění. Její principy dovolují komukoli s připojením k Internetu a webovým prohlížečem měnit její obsah. Proto je třeba upozornit, že nic, co zde naleznete, nemuselo být zkontrolováno a nemusí obsahovat úplné, přesné či spolehlivé informace.
 To neznamená, že ve Wikipedii nemůžete najít hodnotné a přesné informace, ale je třeba si uvědomit, že Wikipedie nemůže žádným způsobem ručit za přesnost informací v ní uvedených. Tyto informace mohl změnit či poškodit někdo, jehož názory se neshodují s aktuálním stavem znalostí oboru, o kterém se chcete něco dozvědět. Snažíme se vytvořit metody, jak vybírat a nabízet nejspolehlivější verze článků. Momentálně nabízí nejbližší podobné schopnosti stránka  , ale i články zde uvedené mohly být nevhodně změněny těsně před tím, než si je prohlédnete.
 
 Pochopte prosím, že informace zde nabízené jsou poskytovány zdarma a neexistuje žádná smlouva mezi vámi a majiteli či uživateli těchto stránek, vlastníky serverů, na kterých běží, jednotlivými přispěvateli, správci, či jakoukoli jinou osobou spojenou s Wikipedií.
 Uvědomte si prosím, že informace zde uvedené mohou porušovat zákony země, ze které si je prohlížíte. Wikipedie nepodporuje porušování zákonů, ale obsah Wikipedie je uložen na serverech umístěných ve  , kde je právo na zveřejňování informací chráněno Prvním dodatkem ústavy Spojených států a principy    . Zákony vaší země nemusí poskytovat tak širokou ochranu svobody slova, takže Wikipedie nemůže zodpovídat za případná porušení příslušných zákonů.
 
 Děkujeme za váš čas strávený čtením této stránky a přejeme vám příjemné používání Wikipedie.


URL: https://ny.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 Wikipedia ndi encyclopedia yogwirizana yowonjezera; ndiko kuti, mgwirizano wodzipereka wa anthu ndi magulu omwe akugwira ntchito kuti apange chidziwitso chodziwika cha chidziwitso chaumunthu. Mapangidwe a polojekiti amalola aliyense amene ali ndi intaneti kuti asinthe zomwe zili. Chonde adzalangizidwe kuti palibe chomwe chinapezedwa pano chikuwerengedweratu ndi anthu omwe ali ndi luso lofunikanso kukupatsani chidziwitso chokwanira, cholondola kapena chodalirika.
 Izi sizikutanthauza kuti simungapeze zambiri zamtengo wapatali mu Wikipedia; nthawi yambiri yomwe mukufuna. Komabe,   Zomwe zili m'nkhani iliyonse yapitayi zangosinthidwa, zowonongeka kapena zosinthidwa ndi munthu amene maganizo ake sagwirizana ndi chidziwitso m'madera oyenera . Tawonani kuti ambiri encyclopedia ndi zolemba zina  .
 Gulu lathu lothandizira la olemba ntchito amagwiritsa ntchito zipangizo monga   ndi   amadyetsa kuyang'anira zatsopano ndi zosintha. Komabe, Wikipedia sichiwerengedwanso  ; pamene owerenga akhoza kukonza zolakwa kapena kuchita zosawerengeka  
 
 Chonde onetsetsani kuti mumvetsetsa kuti mfundo zomwe zili pano zikuperekedwa momasuka, komanso kuti palibe mgwirizano kapena mgwirizano womwe umapangidwa pakati pa inu ndi eni kapena ogwiritsira ntchito tsamba ili, eni eni omwe amapereka malowa, munthu Wikipedia ikuthandizira, oyang'anira ntchito iliyonse, sysops kapena wina aliyense amene ali   ndi polojekitiyi kapena ntchito za alongo malinga ndi zomwe mukuzinena motsutsana nawo. Mukupatsidwa chilolezo chochepa chokopera chirichonse pa tsamba ili; sichilenga kapena kutanthawuza udindo uliwonse kapena wodalirika wogwira ntchito pa Wikipedia kapena aliwonse ake, mamembala, okonzekera kapena othandizira ena.
 Pali 'palibe' mgwirizano kapena kumvetsetsa pakati pa inu ndi Wikipedia  
 Zina mwa zizindikiro, zizindikiro zapadera, zizindikiro zapadera, ufulu wolinganiza kapena ufulu wofanana womwe ukutchulidwa, wogwiritsidwa ntchito kapena wotchulidwa m'nkhani za Wikipedia encyclopedia ndizo za eni ake. Kugwiritsa ntchito kwawo pano sikukutanthauza kuti mungagwiritse ntchito pazinthu zina osati zofanana kapena zofanana ndizo zomwe zimagwiritsidwa ntchito ndi olemba oyambirira a ma Wikipedia awa pansi pa CC-BY-SA ndi GFDL. Pokhapokha ngati zinalembedwa pa Wikipedia ndi Wikimedia sites sichivomerezedwa ndizinthu zogwirizana ndi aliyense amene ali ndi ufulu woterewu ndipo Wikipedia silingapereke ufulu uliwonse kugwiritsa ntchito zipangizo zina zotetezedwa. Kugwiritsira ntchito kwanu kapena malo omwewo osapangidwira ali pangozi yanu.
 Wikipedia ili ndi zinthu zomwe zingasonyeze munthu wodziwika yemwe ali wamoyo kapena wakufa posachedwapa. Kugwiritsidwa ntchito kwa mafano a anthu omwe akufa kapena posachedwa ndi, m'madera ena, oletsedwa ndi malamulo okhudzana ndi ufulu wa umunthu, osadalira ufulu wawo. Musanagwiritse ntchito mauthengawa, chonde tsimikizirani kuti muli ndi ufulu wogwiritsa ntchito pansi pa malamulo omwe akugwiritsidwa ntchito pamene mukugwiritsiridwa ntchito.  
 Kufalitsa uthenga wopezeka mu Wikipedia kungakhale kuphwanya malamulo a dziko kapena maulamuliro kumene mukuwona nkhaniyi. Ndalama ya Wikipedia imasungidwa pa seva ku United States of America, ndipo imasungidwa ponena za chitetezo chomwe chimaperekedwa pansi pa malamulo a m'dera lanu. Malamulo mu dziko lanu kapena maulamuliro sangateteze kapena kulola mitundu yofanana ya kulankhula kapena kufalitsa. Wikipedia siilimbikitsa kuphwanya malamulo alionse, ndipo sangakhale ndi mlandu wa kuphwanya malamulowa, ngati mutagwirizanitsa ndi domina kapena ntchitoyi, mubweretsenso kapena kubwezeretsanso zomwe zili pano.
 Ngati mukufuna malangizo enieni (mwachitsanzo, zachipatala, zalamulo, zachuma kapena zoopsa), chonde funsani akatswiri omwe ali ndi chilolezo kapena odziwa mderalo.


URL: https://ia.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Declaration_general_de_non-responsabilitate

Content: W  N  D  G  D  V 
  es un encyclopedia collaborative a contento aperte, isto es, un association voluntari de individuos e gruppos que disveloppa un ressource commun de cognoscentia human. Le structura del projecto permitte a omnes con un connexion a Internet e un navigator del web alterar su contento. Per favor sia informate que nihil trovate hic ha necessarimente essite revidite per professionales con le expertise requirite pro provider vos de informationes complete, accurate o digne de fide.
 Isto non es a dicer que vos non trovara informationes de valor e accurate in   multe vices vos lo facera. Nonobstante,   Le contento de cata articulo specific pote recentemente haber essite cambiate, vandalisate o alterate per alicuno cuje opinion non corresponde con le stato del cognoscentia in le campos pertinente.
 Nos es in processo de cercar methodos a seliger e dar emphase a versiones digne de fide de articulos. Nostre communitate active de editores usa instrumentos como le paginas   e   pro surveliar contento nove e cambiate. Nonobstante,   non es uniformemente revidite per pares; ben que le lectores pote corriger errores o ingagiar in   casual, illes non ha obligation legal pro facer isto, ergo tote le informationes legite hic es absolutemente sin garantia implicite de aptitude pro qualcunque fin o uso. Mesmo le articulos informalmente revidite per pares o   pote haber essite modificate inappropriatemente plus tarde, justo ante que vos los vide.
 Per favor assecura que vos comprende que le information disponibile hic es providite liberemente, e que nulle sorta de accordo o contracto es create inter vos e le proprietarios o usatores de iste sito, le proprietarios del servitores in que illo es albergate, le contributores individual de  , alicun administratores del projecto, operatores de systema o alicuno altere qui es   con iste projecto o projectos-sorores subjecte a vostre reclamationes contra illes directemente. A vos es impartite un licentia limitate a copiar qualcunque cosa de iste sito; isto nullemente crea o implica responsabilitate contractual o extracontractual del parte de   o de su agentes, membros, organisatores o altere usatores.
 Il ha   concernente vostre uso o modification de iste information ultra le   (GFDL); e nulle persona a   es responabile in caso que alicuno cambia, edita, modifica o elimina alicun information que vos pote publicar in   o in un de su projectos associate.
 Omne marcas commercial, marcas de servicio, marcas collective, derectos de designo, derectos de personalitate o derectos similar que es mentionate, usate o citate in le articulos del encyclopedia Wikipedia es le proprietate de lor proprietarios respective. Lor uso hic non implica que vos pote usar los pro altere fin que pro le mesme o un similar uso informational como contemplate per le autores original de iste articulos de Wikipedia sub le schema de licentiamento GFDL. Si non alteremente indicate, le sitos Wikipedia e Wikimedia non es appoiate per, ni affiliate con le possessores de tal derectos e per consequente   non pote impartir derectos a usar materiales alteremente protegite.  
 Le publication de information trovate in   pote esser in violation del leges del pais o jurisdiction ab ubi vos vide iste information. Le base de datos de Wikipedia es immagazinate in un servitor in le Stato de   in le  , e es mantenite in referentia al protectiones date sub lege local e federal. Le leges in vostre pais o jurisdiction pote non proteger o permitter le mesme typos de parola o distribution.   non incoragia le violation de leges; e non pote esser responsabile pro violationes de tal leges, in caso que vos face ligamines a iste dominio o usa, reproduce, o republica le information continite in isto.
 Si vos besonia consilio specific (per exemplo, medic, legal, financiari, o de administration de riscos) per favor cerca un professinoal qui es licentiate o experte in ille area. Vide
 ,  , e  
pro declarationes specific de exemption de responsabilitates.
 Gratias pro prender le tempore a leger iste pagina, e per favor gaude de vostre uso de  .
 Ben que altere encyclopedias, differentemente que Wikipedia, es professionalmente revidite per pares, illos ancora non garanti lor contento.
 Vide equalmente:  


URL: https://ta.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%AE%B5%E0%AE%BF%E0%AE%95%E0%AF%8D%E0%AE%95%E0%AE%BF%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%8D%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%80%E0%AE%9F%E0%AE%BF%E0%AE%AF%E0%AE%BE:%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%8A%E0%AE%A4%E0%AF%81%E0%AE%B5%E0%AE%BE%E0%AE%A9_%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%8A%E0%AE%B1%E0%AF%81%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%8D%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%81%E0%AE%A4%E0%AF%8D_%E0%AE%A4%E0%AF%81%E0%AE%B1%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%8D%E0%AE%AA%E0%AF%81%E0%AE%95%E0%AE%B3%E0%AF%8D

Content: 
  –   –   –   –  
 
வி  செ  எ  உ  ஏ 
 
  ஒரு இணைய திறந்த-உள்ளடக்க ஒருங்கிணைந்த கலைக்களஞ்சியம் ஆகும். அதாவது, தனிநபர்கள் மற்றும் குழுக்களின் ஒரு தன்னார்வ அமைப்பு, மனித அறிவின் ஒரு பொதுவான வள ஆதாரங்களை வளர்ப்பவர்கள் ஆகும். இந்த திட்டத்தின் கட்டமைப்பானது, இணைய இணைப்பு மற்றும் உலகளாவிய வலை உலாவி உடைய அனைவரும் அதன் உள்ளடக்கத்தை மாற்ற அனுமதிக்கிறது. இங்கே காணப்படும் எந்தத் தகவலும் முழுமையான, ​​துல்லியமான அல்லது நம்பகமான தகவல்களாக நீங்கள் பெறுவதற்க்கு தேவையான நிபுணர்களின் மறு ஆய்வுக்கு உட்படுத்தப்படவில்லை.
 அதாவது நீங்கள்   மதிப்புமிக்க மற்றும் துல்லியமான தகவல்களை காண முடியாது என்று சொல்வதற்க்கில்லை; பல நேரங்களில் உங்களால் அது முடியும். எனினும்,   எந்தவொரு கட்டுரையின் உள்ளடக்கமும் யாராலோ சமீபத்தில் மாற்றப்பட்டு, அழிக்கப்பட்டு அல்லது மாற்றியமைக்கப்பட்டிருக்கலாம்.
 நாம் கட்டுரைகளின் நம்பகமான பதிப்புகளின் தேர்வு மற்றும் முன்னிலைப்படுத்தும் வழிகளில் ஈடுபடுகின்றோம். நமது இயக்கத்தில் சமூக பதிப்பாசிரியர்கள்   மற்றும்   போன்ற ஓடைகளை, புதிய மற்றும் மாறும் உள்ளடக்கத்தை கண்காணிக்க பயன்படுத்துகின்றனர். எனினும்,   முறையான மறுபார்வை இல்லை; வாசகர்கள் பிழைகளை சரிசெய்யும் போதோ அல்லது சாதாரண மறுபார்வையில் ஈடுபடும் போதோ, அவர்கள் அவ்வாறு செய்வதற்கு எந்த சட்ட கடமை கிடையாது. இதனால் இங்கே படிக்கும் அனைத்து தகவல்களும் எவ்வித மறைமுக உறுதியான காப்புறுதிகளும் இல்லாமல் உள்ளது. இருப்பினும் கட்டுரைகள் என்றும் முறைசாரா மறுபார்வை மூலம் அல்லது   மூலம் மதிப்பிடப்படுகிறது. நீங்கள் அவற்றை பார்வையிடும் முன்பு பொருத்தமற்ற செயல்பாடுகள் பின்னர் திருத்தப்பட இருக்கலாம்.
 ஒப்பந்தம் இல்லை; வரையறுக்கப்பட்ட உரிமம்
இங்கே வழங்கப்பட்ட தகவல்கள் இலவசமாக வழங்கப்படுகின்றன என்பதை நீங்கள் புரிந்து கொள்ளுதல் வேண்டும், மற்றும் உங்களுக்கும், இந்த தளத்தின் உரிமையாளர்களுக்கோ அல்லது பயனர்களுக்கோ எந்தவித ஒப்பந்தமும் இல்லை, தனிப்பட்ட விக்கிபீடியா பங்களிப்பாளர்கள், எந்த திட்ட நிர்வாகிகள் அல்லது யாராவது நேரடியாக அவர்களுக்கு எதிராக உங்கள் கூற்றுக்கள் இந்த திட்டம் அல்லது சகோதர திட்டங்கள் தொடர்புடைய எந்த வழியில் யார் இந்த தளத்திலிருந்து எதையும் நகலெடுக்க உங்களுக்கு ஒரு வரையறுக்கப்பட்ட உரிமம் வழங்கப்பட்டுள்ளது; அது விக்கிப்பீடியா அல்லது அதன் முகவர்கள், உறுப்பினர்கள், அமைப்பாளர்கள் அல்லது பிற பயனர்களின் எந்தவொரு ஒப்பந்தம் அல்லது மிரட்டல் கடமைகளை உருவாக்கவோ அல்லது குறிக்கவோ இல்லை. Creative Commons Attributio Sharealike 3.0 Unported License (CC-BY-SA) க்கு அப்பால் இந்த தகவலைப் பயன்படுத்துவது அல்லது மாற்றியமைப்பதைப் பற்றியும், இந்த பக்கத்தை திறக்க வும் திருத்தவூம் முடியும் விக்கிபீடியா அல்லது அதன் தொடர்புடைய திட்டங்களில் நீங்கள் பதிவு செய்யக்கூடிய எந்தவொரு தகவலையும் மாற்ற, திருத்த, மாற்ற அல்லது நீக்க உரிமை உண்டு.
 விக்கிபீடியா கலைக்களஞ்சியத்தின் கட்டுரைகளில் பயன்படுத்தப்படும் அல்லது மேற்கோளிடப்பட்ட வர்த்தக சின்னங்கள், சேவை குறிகள், கூட்டு மதிப்பெண்கள், வடிவமைப்பு உரிமைகள் அல்லது இதே போன்ற உரிமைகள் அல்லது அவற்றின் உரிமையாளர்களின் சொத்து. CC-BY-SA மற்றும் GFDL உரிமம் வழங்கும் திட்டங்களின் கீழ் விக்கிபீடியா கட்டுரைகளின் அசல் எழுத்தாளர்களால் சிந்திக்கப்பட்ட அதே தகவலுக்கும் இதே போன்ற தகவலுக்கும் தவிர வேறு எந்த நோக்கத்திற்காகவும் நீங்கள் அவற்றைப் பயன்படுத்தக்கூடாது என்பதைக் குறிக்கவில்லை. விக்கிபீடியா மற்றும் விக்கிமீடியா தளங்கள் இல்லையெனில், எந்தவொரு உரிமையாளருக்கும் எந்தவொரு உரிமையாளருடனும் தொடர்புபடுத்தப்படாது அல்லது அத்தகைய விக்கிபீடியாவில் எந்தவொரு விதத்தில் பாதுகாக்கப்பட்ட பொருட்களையும் பயன்படுத்த முடியாது. அத்தகைய அல்லது இது போன்ற ஒற்றுமை சொத்து உங்கள் சொந்த ஆபத்தை பயன்படுத்துகிறது.
 விக்கிபீடியாவில் சமீபத்தில் உயிருடன் அல்லது இறந்த ஒரு அடையாளம் காணக்கூடிய நபரை சித்தரிக்கக்கூடிய பொருள் உள்ளது. உயிருள்ள அல்லது சமீபத்தில் இறந்த தனிநபர்களின் படங்களை பயன்படுத்துவது, சில அதிகார எல்லைகளில், அவர்களின் பதிப்புரிமை நிலையிலிருந்து சுயாதீனமான உரிமைகள் தொடர்பான சட்டங்களால் வரையறுக்கப்படுகிறது. இந்த வகையான உள்ளடக்கங்களைப் பயன்படுத்துவதற்கு முன்பு, உங்கள் நோக்கம் பயன்பாட்டின் சூழ்நிலைகளில் பொருந்தும் சட்டங்களின் கீழ் அதைப் பயன்படுத்த உங்களுக்கு உரிமை உள்ளது என்பதை உறுதிப்படுத்துக. நீங்கள் வேறு ஒருவரின் தனிப்பட்ட உரிமைகளை மீறுவதாக இல்லை என்பதை உறுதிசெய்ய நீங்கள் பொறுப்பாக உள்ளீர்கள்
 விக்கிப்பீடியாவில் காணப்படும் தகவல்கள் உங்களுடைய நாட்டின் சட்ட விதிகளை மீறி இருக்கலாம் அல்லது இந்த தகவலை காண்பது உங்கள் நாட்டில் தடை செய்யப்பட்டிருக்கலாம்.  விக்கிபீடியா தரவுத்தளம் அமெரிக்காவில் புளோரிடா மாநிலத்தில் உள்ள ஒரு சேவையகத்தில் சேமிக்கப்படுகிறது. மேலும் அமெரிக்க மாநில மற்றும் கூட்டாட்சி சட்டங்களுக்கு உட்பட்டது. விக்கிப்பீடியாவில் கருத்துகள் தெரிவிப்பது விக்கிப்பீடியா உள்ளடக்கத்தை விநியோகம் செய்வது போன்ற செயல்களுக்கு உங்களுடைய நாட்டின் சட்ட விதிகளின் படி அனுமதி இல்லாமல் இருக்கலாம். இத்தகைய சட்டங்கள் உங்கள் நாட்டில் இருந்தால் அச்சட்டமீறல்களைச் செய்ய விக்கிப்பீடியா உங்களை ஊக்குவிக்கவில்லை, இது போன்ற எந்த விதமான சட்ட மீறல்களுக்கும் விக்கிப்பீடியா பொறுப்பு ஆகாது. இந்த இணையதளத்தை இணைக்க அல்லது பயன்படுத்த, பிரதி உண்டாக்க, அல்லது இங்கு உள்ள தகவல் மறுவெளியீடு செய்ய இந்த தகவலையும் சேர்த்து வெளியிட வேண்டும்.
 உங்களுக்கு குறிப்பிட்ட துறையில் ஆலோசனை தேவைப்பட்டால் (எடுத்துக்காட்டாக மருத்துவம், சட்டம், நிதி, அல்லது இடர் மேலாண்மை) அந்தத் துறையில் அனுபவமுள்ள அல்லது அந்த துறையில் சிறந்தவரின் உதவியை நாடவும்.
 மேலும் பார்க்க:  


URL: https://ceb.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Mga_pagpasabot

Content: A  W  W  M  S  U  M  S  N 
 Ang   usa ka onlayn nga ensayklopedya nga gisulat sa boluntaryong asosasyon sa mga indibiduwal ug pundok nga nagdebelop sa usa ka komon nga rekursos sa kahibalo sa tawo. Ang istruktura sa proyekto naghatag katungod ni bisan kinsa nga may koneksiyon sa Internet ug may brawser sa Kalibotanong Gambalayan (WWW) nga usbon ang sulod niini. Palihog hinumdomi nga walay ania sa sulod niini ang girebyu sa mga propesyonal nga may kabatid nga gikinahanglan aron matino nga ang impormasyon kompleto, ensakto, ug reliyable.
 Kini wala magpasabot nga dili ka makakita dinhi og bililhon ug ensaktong impormasyon; sagad makakita ka. Apan ang  vandalize 
 Kami nangita og mga paagi nga mapili ug mahaylayt ang mga reliyableng bersiyon sa mga artikulo. Ang among aktibong katilingban sa mga editor, magtatampo ug magsusulat mogamit sa mga galamiton sama sa   ug   aron mabantayan ang mga bag-o ug bag-ong giusab nga sulod. Apan bisan kon ang mga gumagamit sa   mobantay sa mga bag-ong giusab, sila walay legal nga katungdanan nga himoon kini ug busa ang bisan unsang impormasyon sa sulod niini walay   sa bisan unsang maong katuyoan o gamit.
 Palihog tinoa nga nasabtan mo nga ang impormasyon sa sulod ning Wikipedya gidalit kanimo nga walay bayad, ug nga walay bisan unsa mang klase sa panagsabot o kontrata nga namugna taliwala kanimo ug sa mga tag-iya ning maong balayan, sa mga tag-iya sa mga serber diin kini gibutang, sa mga magtatampo sa Wikipedya, sa mga tigdumala sa bisan unsa mang proyekto, sa mga burukrata, ug ni bisan kinsang may kalabotan sa Wikipedya. Gihatagan ka og limitadong lisensiya sa pagkopya sa bisan unsa gikan niining balayan; kini wala magmugna o mag-  og bisan unsa mang kontraktuwal o ekstra-kontraktuwal nga layabilidad sa bahin sa   o bisan asa sa iyang mga ahente, sakop, tig-organisa, o uban pang gumagamit.
 Walay bisan unsa mang kasabotan o panagsabot taliwala kanimo ug sa   kalabot sa imong paggamit o pag-usab sa impormasyon sa sulod niini gawas sa gibut-an sa   (GFDL); wala usay bisan kinsa sa   nga responsable kon dunay mousab, mopuno, o motangtang og bisan unsang impormasyon nga imong ibutang ning balayan o sa iyang mga igsoong proyekto.
 Ang mga tatak sa negosyo, mga tatak sa serbisyo, mga tatak kolektibo, mga katungod sa desinyo, mga katungod sa personalidad, o susamang katungod nga gihisgotan, gigamit, o gikutlo sa mga artikulo nining Wikipedya nga ensayklopedya panag-iya sa ilang tagsa-tagsang tag-iya. Ang pagkagamit nila dinhi wala magpasabot nga magamit mo usab sila sa ubang katuyoan gawas lamang sa sama o susamang katuyoan sa paghatod og impormasyon sama sa orihinal nga intensiyon sa mga tagmugna sa maong mga artikulo sa Wikipedya. Gawas lamang kon may gisulat kami sa baligho, ang Wikipedya ug ang mga balayan sa Wikimedia wlaa mag-endorsar ni kini may kalabotan sa mga tag-iya sa ingong katungod. Tungod niini ang Wikipedya dili makahatag og mga katungod sa paggamit ning maong mga protektadong mga materyal.  
 Ang publikasyon sa impormasyon nga makita sa   mahimong usa ka pagsupak sa mga balaod sa nasod o hurisdiksiyon diin ka nagtan-aw ning maong impormasyon. Ang   sa Sinugboanong Wikipedya nahimutang sa mga serber sa estado sa   sa  , ug kini gimentinar sumala sa ma katungod ug proteksiyon nga gihatag sa lokal nga balaod nga estado sa Florida ug sa pederal nga balaod sa Estados Unidos. Ang mga balaod sa imong nasod o hurisdiksiyon mahimong wala maghatag sa samang katungod og proteksiyon. Ang   wala magdasig sa maong pagsupak sa bisan unsang balaod; ug kini dili mahimong responsable sa pagsupak sa maong mga balaod, kon mosumpay ka man ning maong dominyo, o mogamit sa sulod niini.
 Kon nagkinahanglan kag espisipikong mga tambag (pananglitan, medikal, legal, pinansiyal, o pagdumala sa risgo) palihog pangita og propesyonal nga lisensiya o nakahibalo sa maong natad. Palihog tan-awa ang  ,  ,   alang sa mga espisipikong pagpasabot.
 Salamat sa imong pagbasa ning maong panid, ug unta magmabungahon ang imong paggamit sa  .
 Samtang ang ubang ensayklopedya girebyu sa mga propesyonal, dili sama sa Wikipedya, sila wala gihapon maghatag og garantiya sa ilang sulod.


URL: https://da.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Generelle_forbehold

Content:  er et   samarbejdsdrevet   og udgøres af en frivillig og åben sammenslutning af enkeltpersoner og grupper, som frit arbejder på at udvikle en fælles open source kundskabsressource af     for at gøre forskelligt  ,   og informativt stof frit tilgængeligt på  . Strukturen i projektet giver alle med en   mulighed for at ændre i indholdet. Vær opmærksom på, at det, der findes her, muligvis ikke er blevet gennemgået af personer med den nødvendige  , indenfor de bestemte emner, der er nødvendige for at levere fuldstændige, korrekte eller pålidelige  .
 Det er ikke ensbetydende med, at der ikke kan findes mange   og nøjagtige informationer i Wikipedia. Men   Indholdet i en given artikel kan for nylig være blevet ændret, udsat for   eller ændret af én person, hvis meninger ikke svarer til den eksisterende viden på de relevante områder. Bemærk, at de fleste andre leksika og opslagsværker også har lignende ansvarsfraskrivelser.
 Der arbejdes på metoder til at udvælge og fremhæve de mest pålidelige versioner af artikler, men det er stadig uden garanti. Et aktiv fællesskab af frivillige bidragsydere bruger   såsom   og   til at overvåge nyt og skiftende indhold, men     Selv artikler, der er blevet undersøgt af en uformel   eller været igennem processen for   kan have gennemgået en nådesløs redigering kort før de bliver læst.
 Ingen af de enkelte skribenter, udgiverne, bidragyderne, samarbejdspartnerne,  , udviklerne, systemoperatørerne, vandalerne,   af Wikipedia eller nogen som helst anden person eller   med tilknytning til Wikipedia, på hvilken måde det end måtte være, kan drages til ansvar for resultaterne eller afledte konsekvenserne af ethvert forsøg på at anvende informationer og eventuelle unøjagtige eller injurierende oplysninger, der præsenteres på eller er forbundet med disse  , eller som nås via   derfra. Enhver brug af oplysninger, uanset om der måtte forekomme unøjagtig eller skødesløs information, vil udelukkende være på eget ansvar.
 Oplysninger fra Wikipedia stilles   og frivilligt til rådighed og at der findes ikke nogen form for aftale eller   mellem dig og   eller   af Wikipedia, ejerne af   som huser Wikipedia, de enkelte Wikipedia bidragydere, nogen som helst af projektets administratorer, system-operatører eller andre, der på en eller anden måde er forbundet med dette projekt eller dets søsterprojekter, der kan begrunde retskrav fra dig direkte. Der gives en begrænset ret til at kopiere fra denne webside, men det skaber ikke eller det omfatter ikke noget som helst kontraktlige eller ekstrakontraktlige erstatningsansvarlige forpligtelser på Wikipedias side eller for nogen af dets repræsentanter, medlemmer,   eller andre brugere.
  vedrørende din brug eller ændring af oplysningerne ud over   (CC-BY-SA 3.0), ligeledes er ingen på Wikipedia ansvarlig, hvis nogen skulle ændre, redigere, modificere eller fjerne nogen af de oplysninger du måtte lægge ind på Wikipedia eller nogen af dens tilknyttede projekter.
 Alle  , servicemærker, fællesmærker,   eller lignende  , der er nævnt, som anvendes eller som refereres til i   på Wikipedia tilhører deres respektive ejere. Deres anvendelse på Wikipedia er ikke ensbetydende med, at de kan bruges til ethvert andet formål end for den samme eller en lignende informativ brug som påtænkt af de oprindelige forfatterne af artiklerne på Wikipedia under licensen   (CC-BY-SA 3.0). Medmindre andet er anført, er Wikipedia eller   hverken støttet eller tilknyttet nogen af indehaverne af sådanne rettigheder, og kan ikke give nogen tilladelse til at bruge ethvert andet beskyttet materiale. Brug af sådanne eller lignende immatrial ejendom er på eget ansvar.
 Wikipedia kan indeholde motiver, der viser en eller flere genkendelige,   eller nyligt    , som i nogle  ,   eller  , kan være begrænset af lovgivning omhandlende beskyttelse af privatlivets fred. Disse regler er uafhængige af billedets   status. Inden dette type indhold benyttes, skal det sikres, at de gældende regler om beskyttelse af privatlivets fred ikke overtrædes og man har ret til at bruge den i henhold til den lovgivning, som gælder i den individuelle planlagte anvendelse. Du er alene ansvarlig for at sikre, at andres privatliv og rettigheder ikke krænkes.
 Offentliggørelse af oplysninger, der findes på Wikipedia, kan være i strid med lovgivningen i det land eller den  , hvor læseren ser disse oplysninger. Informationerne på Wikipedia er lagret på   i     i   (USA) og vedligeholdes med henvisning til de beskyttelser, der ydes i henhold til den lokale og føderale lovgivning. Informationerne er sikret i medfør af De Forenede Staters   første tilføjelse og af   universelle erklæring om  . Loven i dit land eller juristiktion anerkender muligvis ikke den samme form for omfattende beskyttelse af retten til at tale og skrive som De Forenede Staters love eller De Forenede Nationers Charter. Wikipedia tilskynder ikke til overtrædelse af nogen lov og kan i den sammenhæng ikke gøres ansvarlig for eventuelle overtrædelser af sådanne love, i forbindelse med at du linker til dette  , reproducerer eller genbruger nogen af de oplysninger, der findes her, på nogen som helst måde.
 Hvis du har behov for særlig rådgivning (for eksempel af  ,   eller   eller   art) bedes du opsøge en professionel kyndig, som har ret til at drive virksomhed eller som har specialviden på det område. Læs  ,   og   angående specifikke forbehold.


URL: https://haw.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:N%C4%81_a%E2%80%98o_%E2%80%98ana_laul%C4%81

Content: E nānā i ka moʻolelo ma   (i ka ʻōlelo Pelekania), ke ʻoluʻolu.


URL: https://hi.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AA%E0%A5%80%E0%A4%A1%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%BE:%E0%A4%B8%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%A7%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%A3_%E0%A4%85%E0%A4%B8%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B5%E0%A5%80%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%A3

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 
 विकिपीडिया एक वेब आधारित सहयोग-प्राप्त ज्ञानकोश है, अर्थात्, यह मानव ज्ञान का आम संसाधन विकसित करने के लिए व्यक्तियों तथा समूहों का एक स्वैच्छिक संगठन है। इस परियोजना की संरचना अंतर्जाल संयोजन के साथ किसी भी व्यक्ति को इसकी सामग्री परिवर्तित करने की अनुमति देता है। कृपया यह ध्यान रखें कि यह आवश्यक नहीं है कि यहाँ पाई गई सामग्री की विशेषज्ञों द्वारा सही तथा विश्वसनीय जानकारी देने के लिए समीक्षा की गई हो।
 इसका यह तात्पर्य नहीं है कि आपको विकिपीडिया पर मूल्यवान तथा सही जानकारी नहीं मिलेगी; अधिकांशतः यह सही ही होगी। हालांकि,   किसी भी लेख की सामग्री को हटाया जा सकता है, उत्पात का शिकार हो सकती है अथवा ऐसे व्यक्ति द्वारा बदली जा सकती है जो उस संगत क्षेत्र में ज्ञान की अवस्था से भिन्न विचार रखता हो। ध्यान दें कि अधिकतर अन्य विकिपीडिया तथा सन्दर्भ कार्यों में भी   होते हैं।
 हम लेखों के विश्वसनीय संस्करण चुनने तथा हाइलाइट करने के तरीकों पर कार्य कर रहे हैं। हमारा सम्पादकों का सक्रिय समुदाय नयी तथा बदलती सामग्री पर निगाह रखने के लिये   तथा   फीड जैसे औजारों का प्रयोग करता है। हालाँकि विकिपीडिया की समीक्षा समान रूप से नहीं की जाती; यद्यपि पाठक गलतियों को सुधार सकते हैं तथा कैजुअल   में शामिल हो सकते हैं तथापि उन्हें ऐसा करने का कोई कानूनी कर्तव्य नहीं है तथा इस प्रकार यहाँ पढ़ी गयी सारी जानकारी किसी उद्देश्य या किसी प्रयोग के लिये बिना किसी क्रियान्वित फिटनेस वारण्टी के है। यहाँ तक कि जो लेख अनौपचारिक पीयर समीक्षा अथवा   प्रक्रिया से गुजरे है बाद में इससे पहले कि आप उन्हें देखें हो सकता है कि वो अनुपयुक्त रूप से सम्पादित किये गये हों।
 
 कृपया यह सुनिश्चित कर लें कि यहाँ उपलब्ध की गयी जानकारी मुक्त रूप से उपलब्ध कराई जा रही है तथा आपके एवं इस साइट के मालिकों या सदस्यों, सर्वर के मालिकों, एकल विकिपीडिया योगदानकर्ता, कोई परियोजना प्रबन्धक, सिस्टम ऑपरेटर या कोई अन्य जो इस परियोजना या इसकी किसी बन्धु परियोजना से   के मध्य आपके किसी प्रकार के दावे हेतु किसी प्रकार का ऍग्रीमेण्ट या अनुबन्ध नहीं हो रहा। आपको इस साइट से कोई सामग्री कॉपी करने हेतु एक सीमित लाइसेंस दिया जा रहा है; यह विकिपीडिया की तरफ से या इसके किसी एजेण्ट, सदस्य किसी अनुबन्धित या अतिरिक्त अनुबन्धित दायित्व को बनाता या क्रियान्वित नहीं करता।
  विकिपीडिया के   (CC-BY-SA) तथा   (GFDL) के अन्तर्गत ही है। इसके अतिरिक्त विकिपीडिया से जुड़ा कोई भी व्यक्ति किसी सामग्री में किसी के द्वारा परिवर्तन, सम्पादन, संशोधन तथा निकाले जाने हेतु जिम्मेदार नहीं होगा।
 कोई भी ट्रेडमार्क, सर्विस मार्क, साँझे/संयुक्त मार्क, डिजाइन अधिकार अथवा इसी प्रकार के अधिकार जो कि विकिपीडिया के लेखों में व्यवस्थित किये जाते हैं, प्रयोग किये जाते हैं अथवा उद्धृत किये जाते हैं वे उनके क्रमशः मालिकों की मिल्कियत हैं। उनके यहाँ प्रयोग का अर्थ यह नहीं है कि आप उनका समान अथवा समान जानकारीपूर्ण प्रयोग के अतिरिक्त अन्य कार्यों हेतु प्रयोग कर सकें जैसा कि इन विकिपीडिया लेखों के मूल लेखकों के द्वारा CC-BY-SA तथा GFDL लाइसेंस स्कीमों में वर्णित है। जब तक अन्यथा न कहा जाय विकिपीडिया तथा विकिमीडिया साइटें न तो इन अधिकारों के मालिकों से किसी प्रकार सम्बद्ध हैं और न ही समर्थित हैं अतः विकिपीडिया किसी अन्य रूप से सुरक्षित सामग्री के प्रयोग हेतु अधिकार प्रदान नहीं कर सकता। आपके द्वारा इस प्रकार या   का उपयोग आपके अपनी जिम्मेदारी पर है।
 विकिपीडिया में ऐसी सामग्री है जिसमें एक पहचान योग्य व्यक्ति को चित्रित किया गया हो जो जीवित या हाल ही में मर चुका हो। जीवित या हालिया मृत व्यक्ति के चित्रों का उपयोग कुछ अधिकार-क्षेत्रों में कॉपीराइट स्थिति के अलावा व्यक्तिगत अधिकारों से सम्बद्ध कानूनों द्वारा प्रतिबन्धित है। इस प्रकार की सामग्री के उपयोग से पहले कृपया यह सुनिश्चित कर लें कि आपको आपके आशयित प्रयोग से सम्बद्ध क्षेत्र में कानूनन इनके प्रयोग का अधिकार हो।  
 विकिपीडिया पर उपलब्ध सामग्री का प्रकाशन आप जिस देश में यह जानकारी देख रहे हैं, उस देश या क्षेत्र के कानून का उल्लंघन हो सकती है। विकिपीडिया डाटाबेस   के   प्रान्त के एक सर्वर में संगृहीत है तथा इसका प्रबन्धन/व्यवस्थापन स्थानीय तथा संघीय कानून में प्रदत्त सुरक्षा सन्दर्भानुसार होता है। आपके देश के कानून इस प्रकार के वक्तत्व्य या वितरण की सुरक्षा या अनुमति शायद न दे सकें। विकिपीडिया किसी कानून के उल्लंघन को प्रोत्साहित नहीं करता तथा इस प्रकार के किसी कानून के उल्लंघन हेतु जिम्मेदार नहीं ठहराया जा सकता चाहे आप इस डोमेन को लिंक कर रहे हों, यहाँ उपलब्ध सामग्री को प्रयोग कर रहे हों, पुनर्निर्मित अथवा पुनर्प्रकाशित कर रहे हों।
 यदि आपको विशिष्ट सलाह (उदाहरण के लिये, चिकित्सकीय, कानूनी, वित्तीय अथवा रिस्क प्रबन्धन आदि) चाहिये तो कृपया किसी व्यावसायिक विशेषज्ञ की सलाह लें जो कि उस क्षेत्र में लाइसेसं प्राप्त अथवा विशेष ज्ञानी हो।


URL: https://nv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikiib%C3%AD%C3%ADdiiya:General_disclaimer

Content: We are working on ways to select and highlight reliable versions of articles.  Our active community of editors uses tools such as the Special:Recentchanges and Special:Newpages feeds to monitor new and changing content.  However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual peer review, they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever.  Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the Creative Commons Attribution-Sharealike 3.0 Unported License (CC-BY-SA) and the GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or deceased recently.  The use of images of living or recently deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to personality rights, independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.   
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of Florida in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://hy.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D5%8E%D5%AB%D6%84%D5%AB%D5%BA%D5%A5%D5%A4%D5%AB%D5%A1:%D4%B8%D5%B6%D5%A4%D5%B0%D5%A1%D5%B6%D5%B8%D6%82%D6%80_%D5%B0%D6%80%D5%A1%D5%AA%D5%A1%D6%80%D5%A1%D5%A3%D5%AB%D6%80

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 
 Վիքիպեդիան առցանց, ազատ բովանդակությամբ համատեղ ստեղծվող հանրագիտարան է, և  մարդկային գիտելիքների ընդհանուր շտեմարան ստեղծելու նպատակով միասին աշխատող անհատների ու մարդկանց խմբերի կամավոր համագործակցության արդյունքն է։ Նախագծի կառուցվածքով ցանկացած մարդ, ով համացանցի հետ կապ ունի, կարող է փոխել հանրագիտարանի պարունակությունը։ Խնդրում ենք նկատի ունենալ, որ այստեղ գրված ոչ մի բան անպայմանորեն չի ստուգվել  փորձագիտական որակավորում ունեցող մարդկանց կողմից ձեզ ավարտուն, ճշգրիտ ու վստահելի տեղեկություններ հրամցնելու համար։
 Սակայն դա բնավ չի նշանակում, որ դուք Վիքիպեդիայում չեք գտնի արժեքավոր և ճշգրիտ տեղեկություններ։ Իրականում մեծիմասամբ այդպես էլ կլինի։ Սակայն,    Ցանկացած հոդվածի բովանդակությունը կարող է րոպեներ առաջ փոխված լինել, աղավաղված կամ փոփոխության ենթարկված որևէ մեկի կողմից, ում գիտելիքների մակարդակը չի համապատասխանում տվյալ բնագավառին վերաբերող ներկայիս իմացության մակարդակի հետ։  Ընդ որում շատ այլ հանրագիտարաններ և տեղեկատուներ նույնպես ունեն     ։
 Մենք աշխատոմ ենք ընտրել և առանձնացնել հոդվածների վստահելի տարբերակները։ Մեր խմբագիրների ակտիվ հանրությունը օգտագործում է այնպիսի գործիքներ ինչպես    և  , որոնք օգնում են վերահսկել նոր և փոփոխված բովանդակությունը։ Սակայն, Վիքիպեդիան միայն համամասնակիցների կողմից խմբագրվում է, ցանկացած ընթերցող որևէ սխալ նկատելու դեպքում կարող է շտկել այն կամ պատահական բնույթի խմբագրում կատարել (տես  : Համամասնակիցներն իրենք ոչ մի իրավական պարտավորություն չեն կրում դա անելու համար և ուստի այստեղ ընթերցված բոլոր տեղեկությունները ոչ մի երաշխիքներ չեն տալիս  որևէ նպատակի կամ օգտագործման տեսակի հետ դրանց համապատասխանության համար։  Նույնիսկ այն հոդվածները, որոնք համամասնակիցների ոչ պաշտոնական վերստուգման արդյունքում գնահատվել են որպես   հնարավոր է որ ավելի ուշ անհամապատասխան կամ անհարիր վերախմբագրման են ենթարկվել ճիշտ ձեր ընթերցումից առաջ։
 
 Խնդրում ենք հասկանալ, որ այստեղ զետեղված տեղեկատվությունը գրվել և առաջարկվել է անվճար, և որ ոչ մի տեսակի համաձայնագիր կամ պայմանագիր չի գրվել կամ  չի գրվելու ձեր և այս կայքի սեփականատերերի կամ օգտագործողների միջև, կամ այն սերվերների տերերի հետ, ովքեր հյուրընկալում են այս կայքը, ինչպես նաև Վիքիպեդիայի անհատ հոդվածագիրների, որևիցե նախագծի ադմինիստրատորների, սիստեմ օպերատորների կամ ցանկացած որևէ մեկի հետ, որը   այս նախագծի կամ քույր նախագծերի հետ, որոնց նկատմամբ դուք անմիջականորեն կարող եք որևէ բողոք ունենալ։ Ձեզ տրվում է սահմանափակ իրավասություն պատճենել կայքում զետեղված ցանկացած նյութ, ինչը չի ստեղծում կամ չի ենթադրում որևէ պայմանագրային կամ արտապայմանագրային պարտավորություն ոչ Վիքիպեդիայի կողմից ոչ էլ նրա որևէ գործակալի, անդամի, կազմակերպության կամ այլ օգտագործողների կողմից։ 
 Չկա    ձեր կողմից այստեղ եղած որևէ տեղեկույթի օգտագործման կամ փոփոխման վերաբերյալ՝ ավելին քան ենթադրվում է    (CC-BY-SA) և   (GFDL) արտոնագրերով, ոչ էլ Վքիպեդիայում որևէ մեկը պատասխանատվություն է կրում Վիքիպեդիայում կամ դրան կից նախագծերից որևէ մեկում ձեր տեղադրած ցանկացած նյութի համար, եթե այն փոխվել է, խմբագրվել կամ ջնջվել որևէ մեկի կողմից։
 Ցանկացած ապրանքանիշ, սպասարկման առևտրային խորհրդանիշ, հավաքական խորհրդանիշ, դիզայնի իրավունքներ կամ նմանատեսակ այլ իրավունքներ, որոնք հիշատակվում, օգտագործվում կամ ցիտվում են Վիքիպեդիա հանրագիտարանի հոդվածներում հանդիսանում են նրանց համապատասխան տերերի սեփականությունը։ Նրանց օգտագործումն այստեղ չի ենթադրում, որ դուք կարող եք օգտագործել դրանք ցանկացած ուրիշ նպատակով բացի նույնատեսակ կամ նմանատեսակ տեղեկատվական օգտագործումից  ինչպես նախատեսվել է Վիքիպեդիայի այդ հոդվածների սկզբնական հեղինակների կողմից՝ CC-BY-SA և GFDL արտոնագրային բանաձևերով։ Այլ հայտարարությունների բացակայության դեպքում Վիքիպեդիա և Վիքիմեդիա կայքերը ոչ լիազորված են այդ իրավատերերից որևէ մեկի կողմից. ոչ ստացել են նրանց թույլտվությունը, ոչ էլ որևէ այլ կապ ունեն նրանց հետ և որպես այդպիսին Վիքիպեդիան չի կարող օգտագործման որևէ իրավունք տալ այլ կերպ պաշտպանված որևէ նյութի համար։  Ձեր կողմից որևէ նման կամ նմանատեսակ սեփականատիրական իրավունքով պաշտպանված սեփականության օգտագործման պատասխանատուն միայն դուք եք։
 Վիքիպեդիան պարունակում է այնպիսի նյութեր, որոնք կարող են նկարագրել ճանաչելի անհատների, ովքեր ողջ են կամ վերջերս են հեռացել կյանքից։  Դեռ ողջ կամ վերջերս կյանքից հեռացած անհատների դիմանկարների օգտագործումը որոշ իրավադատություններում, սահմանափակվում է օրենքներով, որոնք կոչված են պաշտպանել  , անկախ նրանց դիմանկարներով նյութերի ունեցած հեղինակային իրավունքի կարգավիճակից։ Մինչև նմանատեսակ բովանդակությամբ նյութերի օգտագործումը, խնդրում ենք նախ համոզվել, որ իրավասու եք օգտագործել դրանք այն օրենքների ներքո որոնք կիրառելի են ձեր նախատեսած օգտագործման նկատմամբ։   
 Վիքիպեդիայից վերցված տեղեկույթի հետագա հրապարակումը, կարող է հակասել այն երկրի օրենքներին, կամ իրավադատությանը, որտեղից դուք դիտում եք այդ տեղեկատվությունը։ Վիքիպեդիայի տվյալների շտեմարանը տեղադրված է     նահանգում, և շահագործվում է  տեղական և դաշնային համապատասխան օրենքների պաշտպանության ներքո։ Ձեր երկրի օրենքները կամ իրավադատությունը կարող են չպաշտպանել կամ թույլ չտալ նմանատեսակ խոսքի ոճը (ազատությունը) կամ տեղեկատվության տարածումը։ Վիքիպեդիան չի խրախուսում որևէ օրենքի խախտում, այն դեպքում, եթե դուք կապվել եք այս ցանցային տիրույթի հետ կամ օգտագործում եք, կամ վերարտադրում, կամ վերահրապարակում եք այստեղ պարունակվող տեղեկույթը այլ իրավադատության տարածքներից։
 Եթե ձեզ պետք է որոշակի բնույթի խորհուրդ (օրինակ, բժշկական, իրավաբանական, ֆինանսական, ռիսկի կառավարման բնագավառներում) խնդրում ենք դիմել մասնագետի, ով արտոնված է կամ համապատասխան որակավորումով գիտելիքներ ունի այդ բնագավառում։ 


URL: https://gu.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%AA%B5%E0%AA%BF%E0%AA%95%E0%AA%BF%E0%AA%AA%E0%AB%80%E0%AA%A1%E0%AA%BF%E0%AA%AF%E0%AA%BE:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate, or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will. However,   The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized, or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works  .
 Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content. However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever. Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops, or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers, or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC-BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify, or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, or similar rights that are mentioned, used, or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated, Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by, nor affiliated with, any of the holders of any such rights, and as such, Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or recently-deceased. The use of images of living or recently-deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.  
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution. Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain, or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management), please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://sn.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: Bhaibheri


URL: https://cs.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedie:Vylou%C4%8Den%C3%AD_odpov%C4%9Bdnosti

Content: 
 
  je otevřená internetová encyklopedie, tzn. seskupení dobrovolníků, kteří vytvářejí databázi lidského vědění. Její principy dovolují komukoli s připojením k Internetu a webovým prohlížečem měnit její obsah. Proto je třeba upozornit, že nic, co zde naleznete, nemuselo být zkontrolováno a nemusí obsahovat úplné, přesné či spolehlivé informace.
 To neznamená, že ve Wikipedii nemůžete najít hodnotné a přesné informace, ale je třeba si uvědomit, že Wikipedie nemůže žádným způsobem ručit za přesnost informací v ní uvedených. Tyto informace mohl změnit či poškodit někdo, jehož názory se neshodují s aktuálním stavem znalostí oboru, o kterém se chcete něco dozvědět. Snažíme se vytvořit metody, jak vybírat a nabízet nejspolehlivější verze článků. Momentálně nabízí nejbližší podobné schopnosti stránka  , ale i články zde uvedené mohly být nevhodně změněny těsně před tím, než si je prohlédnete.
 
 Pochopte prosím, že informace zde nabízené jsou poskytovány zdarma a neexistuje žádná smlouva mezi vámi a majiteli či uživateli těchto stránek, vlastníky serverů, na kterých běží, jednotlivými přispěvateli, správci, či jakoukoli jinou osobou spojenou s Wikipedií.
 Uvědomte si prosím, že informace zde uvedené mohou porušovat zákony země, ze které si je prohlížíte. Wikipedie nepodporuje porušování zákonů, ale obsah Wikipedie je uložen na serverech umístěných ve  , kde je právo na zveřejňování informací chráněno Prvním dodatkem ústavy Spojených států a principy    . Zákony vaší země nemusí poskytovat tak širokou ochranu svobody slova, takže Wikipedie nemůže zodpovídat za případná porušení příslušných zákonů.
 
 Děkujeme za váš čas strávený čtením této stránky a přejeme vám příjemné používání Wikipedie.


URL: https://tt.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%8F:%D2%96%D0%B0%D0%B2%D0%B0%D0%BF%D0%BB%D1%8B%D0%BB%D1%8B%D0%BA%D1%82%D0%B0%D0%BD_%D0%B1%D0%B0%D1%88_%D1%82%D0%B0%D1%80%D1%82%D1%83

Content:  - Википедиядә пәйдә булган мәгълүматка ышану хәвеф-хәтәрле булуы ихтималлыгы! - Википедия медицина өлкәсендә киңәшләр бирми - Википедия эчтәлеге хокукый мәсьәләләрдә дәлил буларак кулланыла алмый - Википедия эчтәлегенең кайберәүләрдә ризасызлык тудыра алуы ихтималлыгы
 В  Ү  Э  Д  Б  Т  Г  Б 
  — кешелекнең бар   туплауга багышланган ачык эчтәлекле онлайн энциклопедик ресурс;   уртак кертеме нәтиҗәсе. Проект структурасы буенча, Интернетка чыгу һәм гизгеч ярдәмендә пәрәвездәге веб-сәхифәләрне карау мөмкинлеге булган һәрбер шәхескә монда пәйда булган эчтәлекне үзгәртү мөмкинлеге бирелә. Моның аркасында, Википедиядә урын алган мәгълүмат аерым белем өлкәсе профессиональ экспертлары тарафыннан тикшерелмәгән, мәкаләләрдә урнаштырылган материалларны тема буенча тулы, дөрес һәм ышанычлы чыганак түгел дип санау дөрес. 
 дә кыйммәтле һәм дөрес мәгълүматны табып булмый дип әйтү дөрес түгел; гадәттә була. Тик   Сезне кызыксындырган материал бу өлкәдә профессиональ белемгә ия булмаган берәү тарафыннан соңгы арада алыштырылган, аңа карата вандаллык кылынган яки киресенчә үзгәртелгән булуы мөмкин. Мәкаләләребезнең ышанычлырак версияләрне тану һәм билгеләү өстендә эшлибез, тик гарантия бирә алмыйбыз. Моңа иң якыны —   процессы, тик боларга да нәкъ сезнең укуыгыз алдыннан берәүнең рәхимсез үзгәртүләр кертүе мөмкинлеген истә тоту дөрес.
 Моны укуга вакыт тапканыгызга рәхмәт.  ! 
 Мәсләкләребезнең  белдерелүе  ----  Mäsläklärebezneñ  belderelüe
   Тарихи мәсләкләр ----   Tarixi mäsläklär
   Стандартларыбызның кыска аңлатмасы  ----    
Standartlarıbıznıñ qısqa añlatması
 'ның барлык проектлар өчен  ----  'nıñ barlıq proyektlar öçen
   Википедия'ның мәсләкләре турында  башка аңлатмалар  ----    Wikipediä'nıñ mäsläkläre turında başqa añlatmalar


URL: https://sn.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: Bhaibheri


URL: https://bxr.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D1%8D%D0%B4%D0%B8:%D0%9D%D0%B8%D0%B8%D1%82%D1%8D_%D1%82%D0%B0%D1%82%D0%B0%D0%B3%D0%B0%D0%BB%D0%B7%D0%B0%D0%BB

Content:  гээшэ хүнэй мэдэлгын сан нэгэдхэжэ, арбижуулхын түлөө, һанаагаара ябалгын үндэһэн дээрэ нэгэдэжэ хамтаран бэшэдэг, Интернетдэхи нэбтэрхэй толи юм. Интернет холболтотой хүн бүри энэ түсэлэй агуулгые хубилгажа болоно. Ушар иимэһээ эндэ байдаг мэдээлэлэй мэргэжэлтэнүүд хинажа, үнэн зүб гэдэгые баталнагүй болон зарим мэдээлэл найдабаритай буса байжа болоно.
 Хэдыгээр Википеэдидэхи диилэнхи мэдээлэл үнэ сэнтэй, үнэн зүб байдагшье гээд,   


URL: https://gan.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:%E5%85%8D%E8%B2%AC%E8%81%B2%E6%98%8E

Content: 維基百科係網上內容公開嗰一部合作百科全書，係發展人類同享知識嗰志願組織。 箇項計劃嗰結構讓任何上到互聯網嗰人修改佢嗰內容。 請倷明白：箇首冇什哩真嗰係拕專業人士審過嗰；東西未必完備、準或者可靠。
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.  However,    The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.
 We are working on ways to select and highlight reliable versions of articles.  Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content.  However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever.  Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 倷=== 冇合同；有限嗰牌照 / No contract; limited license ===
Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://ca.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viquip%C3%A8dia:Av%C3%ADs_d%27exempci%C3%B3_de_responsabilitat

Content: La   és una enciclopèdia col·laborativa de contingut obert en línia, és a dir, una associació voluntària d'individus i grups que estan desenvolupant un recurs comú de coneixement humà. L'estructura del projecte permet a qualsevol amb una connexió d'Internet canviar el seu contingut. Tingueu en compte que res del que aquí s'hi troba no ha estat validat necessàriament per professionals amb la perícia que s'exigeix per donar la informació completa, acurada o fiable.
 Això no vol dir que no trobareu a la Viquipèdia informació valuosa i acurada, al contrari, la major part ho és. Tanmateix,  . El contingut actual de qualsevol article pot ser que s'hagi canviat, vandalitzat o alterat per algú l'opinió del qual no es correspon amb l'estat de coneixement en els camps pertinents.
 Contínuament treballem en maneres de seleccionar i destacar versions fiables d'articles. La nostra comunitat disposa d'eines de supervisió com els   i l'anàlisi de   per controlar continguts nous i canviants. En qualsevol cas, la   no és revisada uniformement per grups d'experts; i, encara que els lectors poden corregir errors o participar en grups informals d'avaluació, no tenen cap obligació legal de fer-ho i per tant tota la informació llegida aquí es fa sense cap garantia per a cap propòsit o ús en absolut. Fins i tot articles que han estat revisats per lectures informals d'avaluació o els   poden haver estat editats més tard inadequadament, just abans que els vegeu. 
 
 Si us plau, assegureu-vos d'entendre que la informació que es proporciona aquí es dóna de franc, i que no es crea cap classe d'acord o contracte entre vós i els propietaris o usuaris d'aquest lloc, els propietaris dels servidors, els col·laboradors de la Viquipèdia, qualsevol administrador del projecte, sysops o qualsevulla lligat amb aquest projecte o projectes germans està subjecte a les vostres reclamacions dirigides contra ells. Us donam una llicència limitada de copiar tot el que hi ha en aquest lloc; això no crea ni implica cap responsabilitat contractual o extracontractual per part de Viquipèdia o qualsevol dels seus agents, membres, organitzadors o uns altres usuaris.
 No hi ha   quant al seu ús o modificació de la informació més enllà de la   (CC-BY-SA) o la   (GFDL); ningú a la Viquipèdia és responsable del fet que algú canvii, editi, modifiqui o tregui qualsevol informació que hàgiu posat a la Viquipèdia o qualsevol dels seus projectes associats.
 Qualsevol de les marques registrades, marques comercials, drets de disseny, drets personals o drets similars que s'esmenten, s'utilitzen o se citen als articles de l'enciclopèdia Viquipèdia són propietat dels seus respectius propietaris. El seu ús aquí no implica que els pugueu utilitzar per a cap altre propòsit que per aquell ús, o un ús informatiu similar, al contemplat pels autors originals d'aquests articles a la Viquipèdia sota l'esquema d'autorització de GFDL. Llevat que es manifesti explícitament, els llocs de Viquipèdia o Wikimedia no donen suport ni estan associats amb cap dels titulars de qualsevol d'aquests drets, i com a tal la Viquipèdia no es pot concedir cap dret per utilitzar cap material protegit. El vostre ús de qualsevol propietat intel·lectual o similar és sota la vostra pròpia responsabilitat.
 La publicació de la informació trobada a la Viquipèdia podria violar les lleis del vostre país o jurisdicció des del que accediu. La base de dades de la Viquipèdia s'emmagatzema en un servidor a l'Estat de   als  , i es conserva en remissió a la protecció que permet la Llei local i federal. La Llei del vostre país o jurisdicció podria no protegir o permetre la mateixa llibertat d'expressió o de distribució. La Viquipèdia no promou la violació de cap llei; i no es pot fer responsable de cap violació d'aquestes lleis tant si enllaceu amb aquest lloc o si useu, reproduïu o publiqueu la informació continguda aquí.
 Si heu de menester assessorament específic (per exemple, mèdic, legal, financer, o de gestió de riscs) si us plau, cercau un professional que hagi estat llicenciat o que tingui els coneixements en l'àrea en qüestió.
 


URL: https://ceb.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Mga_pagpasabot

Content: A  W  W  M  S  U  M  S  N 
 Ang   usa ka onlayn nga ensayklopedya nga gisulat sa boluntaryong asosasyon sa mga indibiduwal ug pundok nga nagdebelop sa usa ka komon nga rekursos sa kahibalo sa tawo. Ang istruktura sa proyekto naghatag katungod ni bisan kinsa nga may koneksiyon sa Internet ug may brawser sa Kalibotanong Gambalayan (WWW) nga usbon ang sulod niini. Palihog hinumdomi nga walay ania sa sulod niini ang girebyu sa mga propesyonal nga may kabatid nga gikinahanglan aron matino nga ang impormasyon kompleto, ensakto, ug reliyable.
 Kini wala magpasabot nga dili ka makakita dinhi og bililhon ug ensaktong impormasyon; sagad makakita ka. Apan ang  vandalize 
 Kami nangita og mga paagi nga mapili ug mahaylayt ang mga reliyableng bersiyon sa mga artikulo. Ang among aktibong katilingban sa mga editor, magtatampo ug magsusulat mogamit sa mga galamiton sama sa   ug   aron mabantayan ang mga bag-o ug bag-ong giusab nga sulod. Apan bisan kon ang mga gumagamit sa   mobantay sa mga bag-ong giusab, sila walay legal nga katungdanan nga himoon kini ug busa ang bisan unsang impormasyon sa sulod niini walay   sa bisan unsang maong katuyoan o gamit.
 Palihog tinoa nga nasabtan mo nga ang impormasyon sa sulod ning Wikipedya gidalit kanimo nga walay bayad, ug nga walay bisan unsa mang klase sa panagsabot o kontrata nga namugna taliwala kanimo ug sa mga tag-iya ning maong balayan, sa mga tag-iya sa mga serber diin kini gibutang, sa mga magtatampo sa Wikipedya, sa mga tigdumala sa bisan unsa mang proyekto, sa mga burukrata, ug ni bisan kinsang may kalabotan sa Wikipedya. Gihatagan ka og limitadong lisensiya sa pagkopya sa bisan unsa gikan niining balayan; kini wala magmugna o mag-  og bisan unsa mang kontraktuwal o ekstra-kontraktuwal nga layabilidad sa bahin sa   o bisan asa sa iyang mga ahente, sakop, tig-organisa, o uban pang gumagamit.
 Walay bisan unsa mang kasabotan o panagsabot taliwala kanimo ug sa   kalabot sa imong paggamit o pag-usab sa impormasyon sa sulod niini gawas sa gibut-an sa   (GFDL); wala usay bisan kinsa sa   nga responsable kon dunay mousab, mopuno, o motangtang og bisan unsang impormasyon nga imong ibutang ning balayan o sa iyang mga igsoong proyekto.
 Ang mga tatak sa negosyo, mga tatak sa serbisyo, mga tatak kolektibo, mga katungod sa desinyo, mga katungod sa personalidad, o susamang katungod nga gihisgotan, gigamit, o gikutlo sa mga artikulo nining Wikipedya nga ensayklopedya panag-iya sa ilang tagsa-tagsang tag-iya. Ang pagkagamit nila dinhi wala magpasabot nga magamit mo usab sila sa ubang katuyoan gawas lamang sa sama o susamang katuyoan sa paghatod og impormasyon sama sa orihinal nga intensiyon sa mga tagmugna sa maong mga artikulo sa Wikipedya. Gawas lamang kon may gisulat kami sa baligho, ang Wikipedya ug ang mga balayan sa Wikimedia wlaa mag-endorsar ni kini may kalabotan sa mga tag-iya sa ingong katungod. Tungod niini ang Wikipedya dili makahatag og mga katungod sa paggamit ning maong mga protektadong mga materyal.  
 Ang publikasyon sa impormasyon nga makita sa   mahimong usa ka pagsupak sa mga balaod sa nasod o hurisdiksiyon diin ka nagtan-aw ning maong impormasyon. Ang   sa Sinugboanong Wikipedya nahimutang sa mga serber sa estado sa   sa  , ug kini gimentinar sumala sa ma katungod ug proteksiyon nga gihatag sa lokal nga balaod nga estado sa Florida ug sa pederal nga balaod sa Estados Unidos. Ang mga balaod sa imong nasod o hurisdiksiyon mahimong wala maghatag sa samang katungod og proteksiyon. Ang   wala magdasig sa maong pagsupak sa bisan unsang balaod; ug kini dili mahimong responsable sa pagsupak sa maong mga balaod, kon mosumpay ka man ning maong dominyo, o mogamit sa sulod niini.
 Kon nagkinahanglan kag espisipikong mga tambag (pananglitan, medikal, legal, pinansiyal, o pagdumala sa risgo) palihog pangita og propesyonal nga lisensiya o nakahibalo sa maong natad. Palihog tan-awa ang  ,  ,   alang sa mga espisipikong pagpasabot.
 Salamat sa imong pagbasa ning maong panid, ug unta magmabungahon ang imong paggamit sa  .
 Samtang ang ubang ensayklopedya girebyu sa mga propesyonal, dili sama sa Wikipedya, sila wala gihapon maghatag og garantiya sa ilang sulod.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia_talk:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 The last sentence of "Jurisdiction and legality of content" uses the Oxford comma while the parenthetical in "Not professional advice" appears to omit it. This should be fixed if it's a mistake; if not, someone please tell me what the intended meaning of the parenthetical is.   ( ) 00:21, 21 October 2022 (UTC) 
 Added a link to   following some discussion over at meta-wiki. —     03:08, 12 November 2023 (UTC) 
 Please change   (in both places it appears) to   per   (page 11). Thanks!   (  · he/him) 19:58, 6 April 2024 (UTC) 


URL: https://gl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Advertencia_xeral

Content: A Wikipedia é unha enciclopedia colaborativa en liña e de contido aberto, isto é, unha asociación voluntaria de individuos e grupos que están a desenvolver un recurso común e aberto do coñecemento humano. A estrutura do proxecto permite que calquera cunha conexión á internet poida altera-lo seu contido. Está avisado de que nada do que atope aquí tivo por que ser necesariamente revisado por profesionais ou expertos que lle garantan unha información fiable, precisa e completa.
 Isto non quere dicir que non haxa información valiosa e precisa na Wikipedia; encontraraa a meirande parte do tempo. Non obstante,  . O contido de calquera artigo que procure puido ser trocado, vandalizado ou alterado recentemente por alguén cuxa opinión non coincida co coñecemento aceptado nesa área concreta. Saiba tamén que outras moitas enciclopedias e traballos de referencia teñen tamén  .
 Estamos traballando no xeito de seleccionar e destacar versións fiables de artigos. A nosa comunidade activa de editores usa ferramentas como   e   que axudan a facer un seguimento do novo contido e dos cambios que se producen. Malia todo isto, a Wikipedia non está uniformemente revisada de xeito minucioso; namentres que os lectores poden corrixi-los erros ou facer algunha revisión puntual, non teñen a obriga legal de facelo e, deste modo, a información lida aquí carece de ningunha garantía ou pode non axustarse a ningún propósito ou uso, o que sexa. Mesmo artigos que recibiran unha revisión informal ou marcados como   poden ter sido modificados máis tarde de xeito inapropiado, xusto antes de que vostede fose velos.
 
 Por favor, teña claro que a información subministrada aquí está sendo proporcionada de xeito libre, e que este tipo de acordo ou contrato faise entre vostede e os propietarios ou usuarios deste sitio, propietarios dos servidores nos que está aloxado, contribuíntes individuais da Wikipedia, calquera administrador do proxecto ou calquera que estea   con este proxecto ou con algún dos proxectos irmáns. A vostede garánteselle a licenza limitada de copiar calquera contido deste sitio; isto non implica ou crea ningunha ligazón contractual ou extracontractual por parte da Wikipedia ou calquera dos seus axentes, membros, organizadores ou outros usuarios.
 Non existe   respecto ó seu uso ou modificación desta información máis aló da   (CC-BY-SA) e a   (GFDL); nin ninguén na Wikipedia é responsable dos cambios, edicións, modificacións ou eliminacións de ningunha información que vostede poida publicar na Wikipedia ou en calquera dos seus proxectos asociados.
 Calquera das marcas comerciais, marcas de servizo, marcas colectivas, dereitos de deseño ou dereitos semellantes mencionados, usados ou citados nos artigos da Wikipedia son propiedade de seus respectivos donos. O seu uso aquí non implica que vostede poida usalos para calquera outro propósito que non sexa o uso informativo contemplado polos autores orixinais dos artigos desta Wikipedia, baixo os esquemas das licenzas CC-BY-SA e GFDL. Agás que se estableza doutro xeito, a Wikipedia e os sitios da Wikimedia non están afiliados con ningún dos posuidores de calquera destes dereitos que, como tales, non poden garantir ningún dereito de usa-lo material protexido. O uso que faga desta propiedade ou de propiedade similar é baixo o seu propio risco.
 A Wikipedia contén material que pode mostrar o retrato dunha persoa identificable, viva ou recentemente morta. O uso de imaxes de xente viva ou recentemente morta está restrinxido polas leis de imaxe nalgunhas xurisdicións, independentemente do estado dos dereitos de autor. Antes de usar este tipo de contidos, asegúrese de que posúe os dereitos para usalos baixo as leis que se apliquen nas circunstancias do propósito do seu uso.  
 A publicación de información na Wikipedia pode supoñer unha violación das leis do país ou da xurisdición do lugar desde onde está vendo esta información. A base de datos da Wikipedia está almacenada no estado de   nos  , e o seu funcionamento mantense respectando as lexislacións locais e federais. As leis do seu país ou xurisdición poden non protexer ou permitir o mesmo tipo de expresión ou distribución. A Wikipedia non fomenta a vulneración de ningunha lei; e non pode ser responsable de ningunha violación de tales leis. Vostede pode ligar este dominio ou usar, reproducir ou volver publicar a información contida aquí.
 Se necesita algún consello específico (por exemplo, médico, legal, financeiro ou xestión de riscos), por favor, busque un profesional licenciado ou competente nesa área.


URL: https://bar.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Impressum

Content: Da Obiata vo dera Netzseitn is de  , eidrogn beim   mid da Numma N03000005323. De Wikimedia Foundation is a Stiftung nochm Recht vom US-Bundesstoot  . De vaantwortliche Osprechpeason – gleizeiti   im Sinne vom   – is de  .


URL: https://bcl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Pankagabsan_na_pagsayuma

Content: 
 
 MAYONG MAITATAONG GARANTIYA AN WIKIPEDIA, NA AN LAOG KAN IMPORMASYON NA INI, HAMÁN, TAMA, MALALAUMAN ASIN MAPAGKAKATUBUDAN.
 Pigpapasabot na an balangkas kan  , saróng   asin  , na bukas sa gabós nin igwang koneksiyon sa Internet asin sa   (elektroniko) dangan an mga laog kaini, pwedeng báguhon niisay man (talingkas).   pwedeng an mga laog kan mga artikulo sa Wikipedya, BAKONG haman, tama asin malalauman o mapagkakatubudan na impormasyon 
 Alagad bakong boot sabihon kaini na dae makakahampang an mga parabasa kaini nin mga kapakipakinabang na impormasyon sa Wikipedia,   Pwedeng an mga artikulo kaini kapagdaka pigbágo niisay man. An pagbabagó kaini, pwedeng daing kauyon-uyunan sa saimong pigtutubodan o interes. Naggigibo an Wikipedia nin paagi na pilion asin matugutan an mga mas katubod-tubod asin malalauman na bersyon kan mga artikulo, alagad magkaarog man kaito, dae pa langgad matatáwan nin karampatang garantiya. An pinakaharanihon na bagay bilang ehemplo kaini iyo an sa ngunyan na madudugangan sa proseso o pahináng  . Arog pa man kaito, magin an mga artikulo sa irarom kaini, pwedeng mayóng hirak na pigbágo katapos-tapos kaining maisapubliko, o matapos na mabasa.
 Pakiulay na siguraduhong masabutan na pigtataó nin daing bayad an mga impormasyon digdi, asin kun magin arog kaito   o kontratang nabilog sa tahaw kan mga naggagaramit nin Wikipedia asin sa mga Kagsadiri kan sityong ini, mga server, paraambag, administrador, Mga tagamatô asin kan iba pan nakatakod sa proyekto o mga kapanalig manongod sa kun ano man an pwedeng ihain laban sa mga ini. 
 
 Pigtatáwanan an gabos nin limitadong lisensiya para kopyahon an miski anong bagay sa sityong ini, arog pa man kaito, dae namumukná, tugdas, gibo o poon, o nagpupoon nin saróng pang pananagutang kontraktuwal an pagtataó kan nasabing lisensiya, o kun ano pa man sa parte kan Wikipedia asin sa mga ahente, kaapil, paraayos o para'organisa, asin mga paragamit kaini.
 An gabos nin markang pagkakakilanlan, markang pangkalakal, Kagsadiring disenyo, personal na kasadirihan, Kagsadiring karapatan, pankagabsang marka asin kan iba pang kahalintulad na pag-rurugaring naitaram, o piggamit bilan toltolan sa artikulo sa ensiklopedyang ini, pawang pagaari lang kan sara-saindang parapagibo o kag-sadiri.  . Apwera kun nabanggit, dae iniindorso kan Wikipedia asin Wikimedia an mga ini, asin Sa bakong kapanalig, o ka "affiliate" sa mga Kagsadiri kan mga ini. Dae pwedeng magtaó an Wikipedia nin karapatan sa paggamit kan Mga ini, ta an mga ini pwedeng protektado o reserbadong materyales. Nasa saimong kamot an paggamit kan mga ini gayumpaman, igwa man kaakibat na pananagutan an paggamit sa mga ini.
 Girumdomi man, na pwedeng kontra sa mga ley na itigtadhana kan saindong nasyon, o nasasakupan nin Lugar an mga impormasyon sa Wikipedia, kun saen ini pigbibisita. Dae pigkukunsinte kan Wikipedia an mga paglabag na ini, tibaad, ta an mga impormasyon digdi naitatago sa server na nakabase sa  ,  , pigmamantinir ini sa liwanag kan proteksiyon naitadhana kan  , laló na an probisyon kan Enot na Pag-aammiyenda asin mga prinsipyong napasasairarom kan Deklarasyong Unibersal kan mga Karapatang Pantawo kan  . An mga ley hale sa ibang nasyon, pwedeng daeng minasaklaw sa mga proteksiyon sa Karapatang Makapagpahayag kaarog kan sa Estados Unidos o sa karta nin Mga Nasyong Nagkakasararó, at kun magkagayon, mayong pananagutan as miski ano pan paagi, sa kung ano man na potensyal na pagluwas sa mga ley an Wikipedia.
 . Pwede man basahon an mga minasunod:
 
 Arog kan nabanggit, bakong unipormadong napagbalik-adalan an laog kan Wikipedia sa saindang parte o kabuuan, miski na igwang kakayahan an mga parabasa na báguhon, itama o halion an mga bakong tamang suhestiyon o rekomendasyon, mayóng legal na pananagutan o obligasyon na pigsasagibo an mga ini.  
 Mayóng pananagutan o danyos na pwedeng hagadon o gikan sa Wikipedia, ta ini binibilog sana ini nin mga boluntaryong asosasyon nin mga indibidwal na igwang manlaenlaen na kaaraman (o kasalaan), kultura asin reperensiya. Inuutro tabi na pigtatáwanan nin mayong bayad an mga impormasyong laog kaini asin mayóng kontrata sa paagi kan Wikipedia apwera sa lisensiyang  . 
 Minagiromdom tabi giraray, pigpapagiromdoman na mayong pananagutan an Wikipedia sa pagbabagó, paghalí, o pagdugang kan mga impormasyon na taon digdi.
 Dios Mabalos sa panahon na saimong piggugol sa pagbabasá kan pahinang ini asin lugod magin toltol an saimong paggamit, pag-aambag asin pagtangkilik sa Wikipedia.
 Igwa man an ibang ensiklopedya kan sara-saindang pagiromdom. Pira lang an mga minasunod sa sipi nin mga pagiromdom na ini:
 (pigmantinar an mga pangiromdon na ini sa orihinal na sipi asin pagkakasurat - Tataramon na Ingles)


URL: https://fi.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Vastuuvapaus

Content: Wikipedia on vapaasti muokattavissa oleva tietosanakirja. Kuka tahansa, jolla on Internet-yhteys, voi muokata Wikipedian artikkeleja.
 Wikipediasta löytyy paljon arvokasta ja totuudenmukaista tietoa, mutta   Vaikka virheellisiä tietoja pyritään korjaamaan Wikipediassa, kenelläkään ei ole velvollisuutta korjata niitä, ja tästä syystä kaikki Wikipediasta löytyvä tieto toimitetaan lukijalle ilman takuuta oikeellisuudesta tai sopivuudesta mihinkään käyttötarkoitukseen.
 Wikipediassa oleva tieto tarjotaan käyttäjille ilmaiseksi ja ilman velvoitetta; tämän sivuston käyttö ei luo käyttäjän, Wikipedian tai kenenkään Wikipediaan liittyvän henkilön välille sopimus- tai vastuusuhdetta. Kenellä tahansa on rajattu oikeus käyttää ja kopioida materiaalia Wikipediasta, mutta tämä käyttöoikeus ei muodosta tai implikoi minkäänlaista sopimuksellista tai muunkaltaista korvausvastuuta.
 Wikipedia saattaa sisältää muiden osapuolien tavaramerkkejä tai muita lailla suojattuja immateriaalisia hyödykkeitä. Ne kuuluvat omistajilleen eikä niiden käyttö Wikipediassa anna kenellekään oikeutta käyttää niitä muussa yhteydessä. Jos toisin ei mainita, Wikipedialla ei ole tosiasiallista suhdetta tavaramerkkeihin tai niiden omistajiin eikä Wikipedia siten voi myöntää kenellekään oikeutta käyttää kyseessä olevia tavaramerkkejä.
 Wikipediasta löytyvä tieto saattaa rikkoa lakia joissain valtioissa, joiden alueelta Wikipediaa luetaan. Wikipedia ei rohkaise tai yllytä rikkomaan paikallisia lakeja tai asetuksia, mutta koska Wikipedian tieto on fyysisesti talletettu  , Wikipedia nauttii tallennuspaikassaan Yhdysvaltain perustuslain ja   yleismaailmallisen ihmisoikeuksien julistuksen kaikille suomaa  . Kaikkien valtioiden lait eivät välttämättä takaa tätä vapautta, ja siksi Wikipedia ei voi olla vastuussa mahdollisista rikkomuksista, joita Wikipedian käyttäjä tekee lukiessaan Wikipediaa tai luodessaan hyperlinkkejä muista hyperdokumenteista Wikipediaan.
 
 


URL: https://fur.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vichipedie:General_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://sv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Allm%C3%A4nt_f%C3%B6rbeh%C3%A5ll

Content: Alla som har tillgång till internet kan skriva på Wikipedia och påverka dess innehåll. Detta är en av Wikipedias styrkor, men också en av dess svagheter. Inga garantier lämnas för korrektheten i innehållet. Tänk på att Wikipedias innehåll, som lagras på servrar i  , kan vara olagligt i det land där du bor.


URL: https://bo.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 
  -  -    -  -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the  ; neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://ca.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viquip%C3%A8dia:Av%C3%ADs_d%27exempci%C3%B3_de_responsabilitat

Content: La   és una enciclopèdia col·laborativa de contingut obert en línia, és a dir, una associació voluntària d'individus i grups que estan desenvolupant un recurs comú de coneixement humà. L'estructura del projecte permet a qualsevol amb una connexió d'Internet canviar el seu contingut. Tingueu en compte que res del que aquí s'hi troba no ha estat validat necessàriament per professionals amb la perícia que s'exigeix per donar la informació completa, acurada o fiable.
 Això no vol dir que no trobareu a la Viquipèdia informació valuosa i acurada, al contrari, la major part ho és. Tanmateix,  . El contingut actual de qualsevol article pot ser que s'hagi canviat, vandalitzat o alterat per algú l'opinió del qual no es correspon amb l'estat de coneixement en els camps pertinents.
 Contínuament treballem en maneres de seleccionar i destacar versions fiables d'articles. La nostra comunitat disposa d'eines de supervisió com els   i l'anàlisi de   per controlar continguts nous i canviants. En qualsevol cas, la   no és revisada uniformement per grups d'experts; i, encara que els lectors poden corregir errors o participar en grups informals d'avaluació, no tenen cap obligació legal de fer-ho i per tant tota la informació llegida aquí es fa sense cap garantia per a cap propòsit o ús en absolut. Fins i tot articles que han estat revisats per lectures informals d'avaluació o els   poden haver estat editats més tard inadequadament, just abans que els vegeu. 
 
 Si us plau, assegureu-vos d'entendre que la informació que es proporciona aquí es dóna de franc, i que no es crea cap classe d'acord o contracte entre vós i els propietaris o usuaris d'aquest lloc, els propietaris dels servidors, els col·laboradors de la Viquipèdia, qualsevol administrador del projecte, sysops o qualsevulla lligat amb aquest projecte o projectes germans està subjecte a les vostres reclamacions dirigides contra ells. Us donam una llicència limitada de copiar tot el que hi ha en aquest lloc; això no crea ni implica cap responsabilitat contractual o extracontractual per part de Viquipèdia o qualsevol dels seus agents, membres, organitzadors o uns altres usuaris.
 No hi ha   quant al seu ús o modificació de la informació més enllà de la   (CC-BY-SA) o la   (GFDL); ningú a la Viquipèdia és responsable del fet que algú canvii, editi, modifiqui o tregui qualsevol informació que hàgiu posat a la Viquipèdia o qualsevol dels seus projectes associats.
 Qualsevol de les marques registrades, marques comercials, drets de disseny, drets personals o drets similars que s'esmenten, s'utilitzen o se citen als articles de l'enciclopèdia Viquipèdia són propietat dels seus respectius propietaris. El seu ús aquí no implica que els pugueu utilitzar per a cap altre propòsit que per aquell ús, o un ús informatiu similar, al contemplat pels autors originals d'aquests articles a la Viquipèdia sota l'esquema d'autorització de GFDL. Llevat que es manifesti explícitament, els llocs de Viquipèdia o Wikimedia no donen suport ni estan associats amb cap dels titulars de qualsevol d'aquests drets, i com a tal la Viquipèdia no es pot concedir cap dret per utilitzar cap material protegit. El vostre ús de qualsevol propietat intel·lectual o similar és sota la vostra pròpia responsabilitat.
 La publicació de la informació trobada a la Viquipèdia podria violar les lleis del vostre país o jurisdicció des del que accediu. La base de dades de la Viquipèdia s'emmagatzema en un servidor a l'Estat de   als  , i es conserva en remissió a la protecció que permet la Llei local i federal. La Llei del vostre país o jurisdicció podria no protegir o permetre la mateixa llibertat d'expressió o de distribució. La Viquipèdia no promou la violació de cap llei; i no es pot fer responsable de cap violació d'aquestes lleis tant si enllaceu amb aquest lloc o si useu, reproduïu o publiqueu la informació continguda aquí.
 Si heu de menester assessorament específic (per exemple, mèdic, legal, financer, o de gestió de riscs) si us plau, cercau un professional que hagi estat llicenciat o que tingui els coneixements en l'àrea en qüestió.
 


URL: https://ga.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vicip%C3%A9id:S%C3%A9anadh_ginear%C3%A1lta

Content: 	
 Ciclipéid saor-ábhair ar líne is ea Vicipéid - .i. cumann deonach de dhaoine aonair agus de ghrúpaí atá ag forbairt acmhainn choitianta de heolas an duine. Ceadaíonn a struchtúr do dhuine ar bith atá le nasc Idirlín agus brabhsálaí an Ghréasáin Dhomhanda aige an ábhar a hathrú. Dá bharr sin, tabhair faoi deara nach gá go léirmheasadh aon rud anseo ag daoine garimiúla atá leis an oilteacht acu eolas  iomlán, cruinn nó iontaofa a thabhairt duit.  
 Ní ionainn é sin agus a rá nach gheobhaidh tú eolas luachmhar cruinn sa Vicipéid, ach ní féidir le Vicipéid bannaí a thabhairt ar bailíocht an eolais atá le fáil anseo. B'fhéidir go raibh sé athraithe, loite nó modhnaithe ag duine a raibh difríocht aige ina thuairim féin faoin eolas. Oibrímid faoi láthair ar meáin chun leagan níos iontaofa de hailt a roghnú agus a chur chun suntais.


URL: https://tl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Pangkalahatang_pagtatanggi

Content: Mangyari ring basahin ang mga sumusunod:
 
 HINDI GINAGARANTIYA NG WIKIPEDIA NA ANG IMPORMASYONG NAKALAGAY SA MGA NILALAMAN NITO AY KUMPLETO, TAMA, MAAASAHAN AT MAPAGKAKATIWALAAN.
 Ang Wikipedia ay isa pong malaya at bukas na ensiklopedyang sama-samang pinagtutulungan ng mga boluntaryong indibidwal at grupo sa mithiing makagawa ng isang pangkalahatang pinagkukunan ng impormasyon. Dahil sa anyo ng proyektong ito, maaari pong baguhin ng kahit sinumang nakakonekta sa Internet ang kahit ano sa mga nilalaman nito. Mangyari pong dapat niyong malaman na hindi po dumaan sa hanay ng mga eksperto ng larangang kinabibilangan ng isang partikular na artikulo ang impormasyong nakalagay. Sa madaling salita po, hindi po masasabing kumpleto, tama, maasahan o mapagkakatiwalaan ang kahit anong impormasyon na nakalagay rito.
 Gayunpaman, hindi ibig sabihin nito ay hindi ka na makakahanap ng mahalaga at tamang impormasyon rito sa Wikipedia. Sa totoo lang, madalas kang makakakita ng tamang impormasyon rito.
 Subalit, pakatandaan lamang po na   Maaari agad mabago ang nilalaman ng kahit sino upang babuyin o di kaya'y dahil sa sumasalungat ng opinyon niya sa napagkasunduan ng nakakarami sa partikular na larangang iyon. 
 Mangyari rin pong dapat niyong malaman na may kaparehong mga pagtatanggi rin ang ibang mga ensiklopedya at pinagkukunan ng impormasyon.
 Ginagamit ng aming aktibong komunidad ng mga tagapatnugot ( ) ang mga kagamitang tulad ng   at   para bantayan ang mga pumapasok na bago at binagong mga nilalaman. Gayunpaman, hindi pantay na nasusuri ng nakakarami ang kabuuan ng Wikipedia - pwedeng itama ng mga mambabasa ang mga kamalian o di kaya'y sumali sa mga pagsusuring ginagawa, pero wala silang tungkuling ligal na gawin iyon at dahil sa kadahilanang iyon, walang katiyakan at garantiya na maaaring magamit ang kahit anong impormasyong nakalagay rito para sa kahit anong paggamit o kung anuman. Maaari ring mabago ang mga artikulong nasuri na nang impormal o di kaya'y itinampok na ( ), bago mo pa mang makita't mabasa iyon.
 
 Siguraduhing naiintindihan mo na binibigay ang impormasyong nilalagay rito nang libre, at walang kasunduan o kontratang ginawa sa pagitan mo at ng mga may-ari at tagagamit ng sayt na ito, ang mga may-ari ng mga   kung saan ito nakalagay, mga indibidwal na nag-ambag sa Wikipedia, kahit sino sa mga tagapangasiwa ng mga proyekto, mga   (mga tagapangasiwa ng isang sistemang may maraming tagagamit), o sa kahit sinumang konektado sa proyektong ito sa mga kakambal nitong mga proyekto   na mapapailalim sa mga paghahabol mo sa kanila nang direkta. Binibigyan ka ng isang limitadong lisensiya sa pagkopya ng kahit anong nasa sayt; hindi ito gumagawa o nagsasabing may pananagutang kontraktwal o ekstrakontraktwal ang Wikipedia o kahit sino sa mga ahente, miyembro, tagapag-ayos, o sa iba pang mga tagagamit nito.
  tungkol sa paggamit mo o sa pagbago sa impormasyong ito na lagpas sa saklaw ng lisensiyang   (walang hurisdiksyon, hal. bansa) na   (CC-BY-SA) at ang lisensiyang   (GFDL), at wala ring responsibilidad ang kahit sinuman sa Wikipedia sa pagbago mo, pagmodipika, o pagtanggal ng impormasyong ipinaskil ( ) mo sa Wikipedia o sa kahit alin sa mga kaugnay nitong proyekto.
 Pagmamay-ari ng nagmamay-ari sa kanila ang kahit anong mga tatak ( ), tatak ng serbisyo ( ), tatak ng 7 9809-[9-0m==ng paggamit ng impormasyon tulad ng naisip ng mga may-akda ng mga artikulong ito sa Wikipedia na nasa ilalim ng mga lisensiyang CC-BY-SA at GFDL. Maliban lamang kung nakasaad, hindi ineendorso ni kasapi ang Wikipedia at Wikimedia sa mga may-ari ng n =f[v0d0=x0 ]8 -q]-9w-9s-09 
 Naglalaman ang Wikipedia ng mga materyales na maaaring makatukoy ng isang buhay o kamamatay lang na tao. Nililimitahan ng mga batas na may kaugnayan sa karapatan sa pagkatao ng ilang hurisdiksyon ang paggamit sa mga larawan ng buhay o kamamatay lang na tao, at iba pa ito sa estado ng karapatan sa pagmamay-ari ng mga ito. Siguraduhing may karapatan kang gamitin ang mga iyon sa ilalim ng mga batas na malalapat sa kalagayan ng panggagamitan mo.  
 Maaaring labag sa batas ng bansa kung saan mo nababasa ang impormasyong nakalagay rito ang paglathala ng impormasyong nasa Wikipedia. Nakatago ang lahat ng impormasyon ng Wikipedia sa mga   nito sa Estados Unidos, at patuloy na pinangangalagaan ito sa ilalim ng proteksyon ng mga lokal at pederal na batas. Maaaring hindi protektado o pinapayagan ng mga batas ng iyong bansa o hurisdiksyon ang kaparehong antas ng pagsalita at/o paglimbag. Hindi hinihimok ng Wikipedia ang paglabag sa kahit anong mga batas, at hindi rin responsable ito para sa mga paglabag sa batas na iyon, kung sakali mang nagkawing ( ) ka sa dominyong ( ) ito o maging ang paggamit, pagkopya, o paglimbag muli ng mga impormasyong nakalagay rito.
 Kung nangangailangan ka ng tiyak na payo (tulad ng medikal, ligal, pinansiyal, o pamamahala sa peligro), mangyaring humingi ng payo sa isang propesyonal na lisensiyado o may alam sa naturang larangan.


URL: https://bs.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Odricanje_odgovornosti

Content: Wikipedia ne garantira potpunost ni tačnost informacija i podataka.
 Wikipedia je saradnička   otvorenog sadržaja na  , tj. dobrovoljno udruženje grupa i pojedinaca koji stvaraju i razvijaju zajednički izvor ljudskog saznanja. Sama struktura projekta omogućava svakome s pristupom internetu i mrežnim   ( ,  ,  ,  ,...), da mijenja njegov sadržaj. Budite svjesni da ništa što možete naći ovdje ne mora biti pregledano od strane profesionalaca dovoljno stručnih da bi Vam se pružile potpune, tačne i pouzdane informacije.
 To ne znači da se na Wikipediji ne mogu naći vrijedne i tačne informacije; najčešće one to jesu. Ipak, Wikipedia ne može garantirati valjanost informacija koje se mogu naći ovdje. Sadržaj bilo kojeg članka mogao je u skorije vrijeme biti potpuno promijenjen, vandaliziran ili izmijenjen od strane nekoga čije mišljenje ne odgovara stanju saznanja iz bitnih oblasti.
 Trenutno radimo na načinima kojima će se moći izabrati i istaći pouzdane verzije članaka. Naša aktivna zajednica urednika koristi alatke kao što su   i  , putem kojih se prate promjene i dodavanje novog sadržaja. Ipak, Wikipedia se ne provjerava jednoobrazno; mada čitaoci mogu ispravljati greške ili se upuštati u neobavezne zajedničke provjere, nemaju nikakvu pravnu obavezu to raditi. Stoga su sve informacije koje ovdje pročitate bez ikakve nagoviještene garantirane podobnosti za bilo koju svrhu ili upotrebu. Čak i članci koji su izdvojeni neobaveznom zajedničkom provjerom ili procesima za izbor kvalitetnijih mogu kasnije biti uređeni neprilično, i to tik prije no što ih Vi pregledate.
 Molimo Vas da se potrudite da razumijete da su informacije koje se ovdje nalaze pružene slobodno i da ne postoji nikakav sporazum ili ugovor načinjen između Vas i vlasnika i korisnika ove stranice, vlasnika servera na kojem je smještena, pojedinačnih doprinosilaca Wikipediji, bilo kojeg od administratora ili "birokrata" projekta, kao ni bilo koga drugog na bilo koji način povezanog s ovim ili njegovim srodnim projektima ko bi bio direktno podložan Vašim navodima protiv njih. Imate ograničenu dozvolu (licencu) da kopirate bilo šta s ove stranice; ona ne stvara niti nagovještava ikakvu ugovornu ili vanugovornu odgovornost Wikipedije niti bilo koga od njenih agenata, članova, organizatora ili drugih korisnika.
 Ne postoji nikakav dogovor ili sporazum između Vas i Wikipedie u vezi s Vašim korištenjen ili modificiranjem ovih informacija van okvira GNU-ove licence za slobodnu dokumentaciju (GLSD, GFDL) niti je iko na Wikipediji odgovoran ako neko promijeni ili ukloni bilo koju informaciju koju postavite na Wikipediju ili bilo koji od povezanih projekata.
 Bilo koji od zaštitnih ( ), servisnih ( ) ili zbirnih znakova ( ), prava dizajna ( ), prava ličnosti ( ) ili sličnih prava koja se spominju, koriste ili navode u člancima enciklopedije Wikipedia vlasništvo su njihovih dotičnih vlasnika. Njihova upotreba ovdje ne nagovještava da ih možete koristiti u bilo koju drugu svrhu osim one iste ili slične informativne upotrebe koju su zamislili originalni autori ovih Wikipedijinih članaka pod shemom licenciranja GLSD. Osim ako je drugačije naglašeno, Wikipedia i Wikimedijine stranice niti podržavaju niti su povezani sa bilo kojim od vlasnika takvih prava i Wikipedia kao takva ne može dati nikakva prava na korištenje materijala koji je inače zaštićen. Vaša upotreba bilo kojeg takvog ili sličnog nematerijalnog vlasništva je na Vaš rizik.
 Objavljivanje informacija i sadržaja Wikipedije može biti shvaćeno kao kršenje zakona nekih država ili pravnih entiteta iz kojih Vi imate pristup ovim informacijama. Baza podataka Wikipedije čuva se na serverima u državi   ( ) te njihovo održavanje i čuvanje podliježe lokalnim i federalnim zakonima tih pravnih entiteteta i država. Zakoni u Vašoj državi ili pravnom entitetu mogu zagovarati i braniti sasvim drugačije stavove. Wikipedia ne podržava niti ohrabruje kršenje ničijih zakona te stoga ne može odgovarati za bilo kakvo kršenje nečijih zakona niti biti odgovorna za povezivanje sadržaja Wikipedije s internetskim domenima koji podliježu drugačijim zakonima, kao ni za reproduciranje ili objavljivanje informacija i podataka sadržanih u njoj.
 Ako imate potrebu za nekim savjetom ( ,  , finansijskim ili u vezi s poslovnim rizicima), molimo da se obratite profesionalnom stručnjaku iz dotične oblasti.
 Hvala na vremenu koje ste utrošili da pročitate ovu stranicu i želimo Vam da uživate u korištenju i pregledanju Wikipedije.
 Iako je sadržaj drugih enciklopedija (koje se razlikuju od Wikipedije po licenci pod kojom se objavljuju), pregledan i potvrđen od strane sručnjaka i profesionalaca iz raznih oblasti, ipak se ne garantira ispravnost, tačnost i potpunost njihovog sadržaja.


URL: https://bs.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Odricanje_odgovornosti

Content: Wikipedia ne garantira potpunost ni tačnost informacija i podataka.
 Wikipedia je saradnička   otvorenog sadržaja na  , tj. dobrovoljno udruženje grupa i pojedinaca koji stvaraju i razvijaju zajednički izvor ljudskog saznanja. Sama struktura projekta omogućava svakome s pristupom internetu i mrežnim   ( ,  ,  ,  ,...), da mijenja njegov sadržaj. Budite svjesni da ništa što možete naći ovdje ne mora biti pregledano od strane profesionalaca dovoljno stručnih da bi Vam se pružile potpune, tačne i pouzdane informacije.
 To ne znači da se na Wikipediji ne mogu naći vrijedne i tačne informacije; najčešće one to jesu. Ipak, Wikipedia ne može garantirati valjanost informacija koje se mogu naći ovdje. Sadržaj bilo kojeg članka mogao je u skorije vrijeme biti potpuno promijenjen, vandaliziran ili izmijenjen od strane nekoga čije mišljenje ne odgovara stanju saznanja iz bitnih oblasti.
 Trenutno radimo na načinima kojima će se moći izabrati i istaći pouzdane verzije članaka. Naša aktivna zajednica urednika koristi alatke kao što su   i  , putem kojih se prate promjene i dodavanje novog sadržaja. Ipak, Wikipedia se ne provjerava jednoobrazno; mada čitaoci mogu ispravljati greške ili se upuštati u neobavezne zajedničke provjere, nemaju nikakvu pravnu obavezu to raditi. Stoga su sve informacije koje ovdje pročitate bez ikakve nagoviještene garantirane podobnosti za bilo koju svrhu ili upotrebu. Čak i članci koji su izdvojeni neobaveznom zajedničkom provjerom ili procesima za izbor kvalitetnijih mogu kasnije biti uređeni neprilično, i to tik prije no što ih Vi pregledate.
 Molimo Vas da se potrudite da razumijete da su informacije koje se ovdje nalaze pružene slobodno i da ne postoji nikakav sporazum ili ugovor načinjen između Vas i vlasnika i korisnika ove stranice, vlasnika servera na kojem je smještena, pojedinačnih doprinosilaca Wikipediji, bilo kojeg od administratora ili "birokrata" projekta, kao ni bilo koga drugog na bilo koji način povezanog s ovim ili njegovim srodnim projektima ko bi bio direktno podložan Vašim navodima protiv njih. Imate ograničenu dozvolu (licencu) da kopirate bilo šta s ove stranice; ona ne stvara niti nagovještava ikakvu ugovornu ili vanugovornu odgovornost Wikipedije niti bilo koga od njenih agenata, članova, organizatora ili drugih korisnika.
 Ne postoji nikakav dogovor ili sporazum između Vas i Wikipedie u vezi s Vašim korištenjen ili modificiranjem ovih informacija van okvira GNU-ove licence za slobodnu dokumentaciju (GLSD, GFDL) niti je iko na Wikipediji odgovoran ako neko promijeni ili ukloni bilo koju informaciju koju postavite na Wikipediju ili bilo koji od povezanih projekata.
 Bilo koji od zaštitnih ( ), servisnih ( ) ili zbirnih znakova ( ), prava dizajna ( ), prava ličnosti ( ) ili sličnih prava koja se spominju, koriste ili navode u člancima enciklopedije Wikipedia vlasništvo su njihovih dotičnih vlasnika. Njihova upotreba ovdje ne nagovještava da ih možete koristiti u bilo koju drugu svrhu osim one iste ili slične informativne upotrebe koju su zamislili originalni autori ovih Wikipedijinih članaka pod shemom licenciranja GLSD. Osim ako je drugačije naglašeno, Wikipedia i Wikimedijine stranice niti podržavaju niti su povezani sa bilo kojim od vlasnika takvih prava i Wikipedia kao takva ne može dati nikakva prava na korištenje materijala koji je inače zaštićen. Vaša upotreba bilo kojeg takvog ili sličnog nematerijalnog vlasništva je na Vaš rizik.
 Objavljivanje informacija i sadržaja Wikipedije može biti shvaćeno kao kršenje zakona nekih država ili pravnih entiteta iz kojih Vi imate pristup ovim informacijama. Baza podataka Wikipedije čuva se na serverima u državi   ( ) te njihovo održavanje i čuvanje podliježe lokalnim i federalnim zakonima tih pravnih entiteteta i država. Zakoni u Vašoj državi ili pravnom entitetu mogu zagovarati i braniti sasvim drugačije stavove. Wikipedia ne podržava niti ohrabruje kršenje ničijih zakona te stoga ne može odgovarati za bilo kakvo kršenje nečijih zakona niti biti odgovorna za povezivanje sadržaja Wikipedije s internetskim domenima koji podliježu drugačijim zakonima, kao ni za reproduciranje ili objavljivanje informacija i podataka sadržanih u njoj.
 Ako imate potrebu za nekim savjetom ( ,  , finansijskim ili u vezi s poslovnim rizicima), molimo da se obratite profesionalnom stručnjaku iz dotične oblasti.
 Hvala na vremenu koje ste utrošili da pročitate ovu stranicu i želimo Vam da uživate u korištenju i pregledanju Wikipedije.
 Iako je sadržaj drugih enciklopedija (koje se razlikuju od Wikipedije po licenci pod kojom se objavljuju), pregledan i potvrđen od strane sručnjaka i profesionalaca iz raznih oblasti, ipak se ne garantira ispravnost, tačnost i potpunost njihovog sadržaja.


URL: https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/%EC%9C%84%ED%82%A4%EB%B0%B1%EA%B3%BC:%EB%A9%B4%EC%B1%85_%EC%A1%B0%ED%95%AD

Content: 
 위키백과는 온라인에 의해 내용이 개방되는 백과사전입니다. 다시 말해 위키백과에 참여하는 개인이나 단체는 인간이 창조하고 발견한 지식을 한 곳에 모으는 노력을 함께하고 있습니다.  과  를 쓸 수 있는 모든 사람은 누구나 위키백과에 참여하여 글을 쓰고 수록된 글을 보충 또는 수정할 수 있습니다. 그러므로 여기에 수록된 개별 분야에 관한 어떠한 글도 전문가에 의해 특별히 검토되지 않기 때문에 어떤 주제에 대해서도 정확하고 또는 신뢰할 수 있는 정보를 제공한다고 볼 수는 없습니다.
 그렇다고 해서 여러분께서 위키백과에서 가치 있고 정확한 정보를 얻을 수 없다는 것을 의미하지는 않습니다.   여기에 수록된 정보는 어느 사람에 의해서든지 조만간 수정되거나 변경 또는 심지어 훼손될 수 있습니다. 그리고 글을 쓴 참여자의 입장이나 의견이 여러분이 관심이 있고 정보를 얻고자 하는 특정 분야의 지적 수준에 부합되지 않을 수도 있습니다.
 작가, 참여자, 후원자, 관리자 혹은 위키백과와 관련된 어떠한 사람도 이 웹사이트의 페이지에 수록된 또는 링크된 정보를 여러분이 사용하는 것에 어떠한 책임도 지지 않습니다. 위키백과가 제공하는 정보는 여러분께서 자유로이 그리고 무료로 사용하신다는 것을 재삼 인식하여야 하며, 따라서 여러분과 이 웹사이트의 소유자 또는 특정 사용자 사이에서는 어떠한 종류의 허가나 동의 또는 접촉도 불필요합니다. 이 웹사이트가 등록된 서버의 소유자, 개별 참여자, 관리자 혹은 이 프로젝트 또는 자매 프로젝트와 관련된 어느 사람도 여러분의 직접적 항의로부터 유보됩니다. 여러분은 이 웹사이트에 수록된 내용을  에 따라 제한적으로 복사할 수 있으며 이를 필요에 따라 임의로 사용할 수 있습니다.
 위키백과에 사용 또는 인용된 등록상표, 서비스표식, 조합표식, 디자인권, 개별권 혹은 이와 유사한 권리 등은 해당 유동재산의 소유자의 권리에 속합니다. 위키백과에 글을 쓴 참여자가  의 보호를 받고 있을 수도 있는 이와 같은 종류의 유동재산을 사용하였을 때 이는  에 규정된 이와 관련된 내용 이외의 다른 목적으로 여러분이 사용할 수 있다는 것을 의미하지 않습니다. 위키백과 그리고 위키미디어의 웹사이트는 별도로 언급하지 않는 한 (이를테면   혹은  ) 저작권과 직접 혹은 간접적으로 관련된 사항을 확인해 드리지 않습니다.
 위키백과는 저작권의 보호를 받고 있는 자료가 수록되지 않도록 각별한 주의를 하지만, 때에 따라서는 저작권에 저촉된 내용이 위키백과의 문서에 수록되어 있을 수도 있습니다. 만일 여러분께서 이를 모르고 사용하였을 경우에 따르는 법적 문제는 전적으로 여러분 자신이 책임을 지게 됩니다.
 위키백과에 수록된 정보는 여러분이 현재 위치하고 있는 국가의 법에 저촉될 수도 있습니다. 여러분이 위치한 국가의 법은  의 법 또는  의 원칙에 따른 표현의 자유 보장을 넓은 의미에서 인정하지 않을 수도 있습니다. 위키백과는 여러분이 위키백과에 링크함으로써 혹은 여기에 포함된 어떤 정보를 사용함으로써 생길 수도 있는 법적 위반에 대해 어떠한 책임도 지지 않습니다.
 만일 여러분께서 특별한 분야(이를테면 의료, 법, 경제)에 조언이 필요할 경우, 이 분야의 전문가를 찾기를 권장합니다.


URL: https://sh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedija:Op%C4%87e_odricanje_odgovornosti

Content: W 
  je internetska enciklopedija otvorenog sadržaja koja funkcionira na temelju volonterske suradnje pojedinaca i skupina pojedinaca, s zajedničkim ciljem stvaranja izvora ljudskog znanja. Ustrojstvo projekta omogućava svakoj osobi s vezom na Internet i preglednikom World Wide Weba mijenjanje sadržaja enciklopedije. Molimo shvatite da nijedan podatak koji ovdje pronađete nije nužno provjeren od strane profesionalaca, niti ovdjeprisutni mogu osigurati potpunu, točnu ili pouzdanu informaciju.
 To ne znači da u   nećete pribaviti vrijednu i točnu informaciju, naprotiv, najčešće hoćete. Međutim,    Sadržaj članaka može u svakom trenutku biti izmijenjen, vandaliziran ili preinačen od strane pojedinca čije mišljenje nije odraz znanja iz tog područja.  
 Trenutno radimo na načinima odabiranja i isticanja pouzdanih inačica članaka. Naša aktivna zajednica urednika pri praćenju i mijenjanju sadržaja koristi alate poput pohrane   i  . No   se ne pregledava ujednačeno, a čitatelji se, iako mogu ispravljati greške, ne nalaze pod pravnom obvezom, pa informacije koje ovdje pročitate nemaju naznačeno jamstvo ispravnosti za bilo kakvo korištenje. Čak i ravnopravno i nepristrano vrednovani ili   zadržavaju vjerojatnost naknadnog neprikladnog uređivanja.
 Molimo, shvatite da doprinose u vidu informacija dajete slobodno, i pritom ne dolazi ni do kakavog sporazuma između vas i vlasnika ili korisnika stranica, vlasnika poslužitelja na kojima su postavljene, pojedinih suradnika  , administratora projekta, "sysopa" ili ikoga tko je   s ovim ili nekim od sestrinskih projekata. Ta ista osoba ne može izravno odgovarati na vaše optužbe. Dodijeljena vam je ograničena licenca s pravom kopiranja cjelokupnog sadržaja ovih stranica, no ona ne podrazumijeva niti dovodi do ugovorne ili izvanugovorne odgovornosti   ili njenih agenata, članova, organizatora ili drugih korisnika.
  u svezi s korištenjem ili mijenjanjem ovdje prisutnih podataka je   (GFDL); nijedan član   nije odgovoran za promjene, preinake, modifikacije ili brisanje podataka koje ste dodali   ili ijednom drugom povezanom projektu.
 Zaštitni znakovi, zbirni i znakovi službe, patentna prava, prava identiteta ili slična spomenuta, korištena ili u Wikipedijinim člancima navedena prava, su imovina svojih vlasnika. Njihova pojavnost na ovim stranicama ne znači da ih možete koristiti za svrhu drugačiju od iste ili slične informacijske namjene, a u skladu s namjerom autora enciklopedijskih članaka u skladu s GFDL dozvolom. Osim ako nije drugačije navedeno,   Wikipedia i Wikimedia ne podržavaju niti su ni na koji način povezani s nositeljima tih prava, pa kao takva   ne jamči pravo na korištenje inače zaštićene građe.  
 Podaci objavljeni u   možda krše zakone države iz koje pregledate te podatke. Wikipedijina baza podataka nalazi se na poslužitelju u saveznoj državi   u  , te se održava u skladu s uputama o čuvanju koje pružaju mjesni i federalni zakoni. Zakonska regulativa u vašoj zemlji možda ne štiti ili ne dopušta istu slobodu govora ili kopiranja.   ne potiče kršenje zakona, niti se može smatrati odgovornom za zlodjela koja proizlaze iz vašeg povezivanja na ovu domenu, korištenja, reprodukcije ili objavljivanja informacija koje ovdje pronađete.
 Ako trebate savjet u nekom području (medicina, pravo, financije, ili vezano uz određeni rizik), molimo potražite stručnjaka koji je licenciran, poznat ili prihvaćen u svom području. Za posebna odricanja pogledajte  ,   i  .
 Zahvaljujemo na vremenu koje ste utrošili na čitanje ove stranice; nastavite uživati u blagodatima  ! 


URL: https://inh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8:%D0%91%D0%B5%D1%85%D0%BA%D1%82%D0%BE%D0%BA%D1%85%D0%B0%D0%BC_%D1%82%D3%80%D0%B0%D1%86%D0%B0%D1%8D%D1%86%D0%B0%D1%80

Content: ,  -энциклопеди къайладоацача чударца — шоай лоӀамца вӀашагӀкхийттача наьх юкъарло я, адамий ховраш гулдеш. Цо могадайта Дуненмазáи  áи тӀакхача йиш йолча сагага цун чулоацам хувца. Цу бахьане, боккъал, оаша теркам бе укхаза доаладаь дараш (ховраш) бокъонца ховш болча Ӏилманхоша тешшаме техканза хила мегаш долга.
 Харцахьа хургда Википеде чу кхы дукха пайдане хоам бац аьлча, цхьабакъда оаша кхетаде деза,   МоллагӀа йола статья ешача хана, из шо еша дӀадолалехьа хийца хила мег, е толхаяь хила мег, е массане тӀаийцачунна духьал волчо язъяь хила мег.
 Тхо тохкаш да, тешам дукхагӀа болча статьяй эршаш лоръю оаха, амма тха вӀаштехьа дац гаранти яла. МоллагӀа йола статья шо еша дӀадолалехьа хийца а толхаяь а хила мег.


URL: https://bxr.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D1%8D%D0%B4%D0%B8:%D0%9D%D0%B8%D0%B8%D1%82%D1%8D_%D1%82%D0%B0%D1%82%D0%B0%D0%B3%D0%B0%D0%BB%D0%B7%D0%B0%D0%BB

Content:  гээшэ хүнэй мэдэлгын сан нэгэдхэжэ, арбижуулхын түлөө, һанаагаара ябалгын үндэһэн дээрэ нэгэдэжэ хамтаран бэшэдэг, Интернетдэхи нэбтэрхэй толи юм. Интернет холболтотой хүн бүри энэ түсэлэй агуулгые хубилгажа болоно. Ушар иимэһээ эндэ байдаг мэдээлэлэй мэргэжэлтэнүүд хинажа, үнэн зүб гэдэгые баталнагүй болон зарим мэдээлэл найдабаритай буса байжа болоно.
 Хэдыгээр Википеэдидэхи диилэнхи мэдээлэл үнэ сэнтэй, үнэн зүб байдагшье гээд,   


URL: https://su.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Bantahan_umum

Content:  nyaéta énsiklopédi nemrak ( ) online, anu hartina mangrupa hiji gempungan sukaréla nu ngembangkeun hiji sumberdaya umum pangaweruh. Strukturna dijieun  sangkan bisa dipaké ku saha baé nu miboga sambungan Internét sarta     pikeun ngarobah eusi nu kapanggih di dieu. ku sabab kitu, perlu dipikanyaho yén nu aya di dieu merlukeun ulasan para profésional husus nu mémang kaweruhna dipikabutuh pikeun nyadiakeun informasi ngeunaan naon baé dina   kalawan lengkep, akurat, sarta bisa dipercaya.
 Éta hal téh teu ngandung harti yén Anjeun moal manggih informasi nu boga ajén sarta akurat dina  , tapi ogé, mugia kauninga yén   Eusina bisa cikénéh pisan robah, diruksak, atawa diganggu ku jalma séjén nu pamanggihna teu saluyu jeung jihat pangaweruh dina widang husus nu kabeneran keur dipaluruh ku Anjeun. Urang keur ngusahakeun cara pikeun milih sarta nyatujuan vérsi artikel nu bisa leuwih dipercaya, tapi tetep tanpa jaminan. Nu pangdeukeutna tina usaha ieu nyaéta ku ayana prosés  , tapi artikel nu éta gé bisa waé  robah pas pisan méméh anjeun muka.
 Anjeun geus dianggap ngarti yén sagala informasi nu aya di dieu téh disadiakeun kalawan bébas tur haratis, sarta teu aya perjangjian atawa kontrak naon ogé anu dijieun antara Anjeun jeung pamilik atawa pamaké situs ieu, pamilik server tempatna disimpen, pribadi kontributor  , administrator proyék mana baé,   atawa singsaha baé nu   jeung proyék ieu atawa subyék proyék   kana klaim Anjeun ka maranéhna sacara langsung. Anjeun dibéré ijin nu diwates pikeun nyalin sagala rupa nu aya dina ieu situs. Éta hal teu matak nyieun atawa nyababkeun kontrak naon baé atawa kontrak tambahan pikeun Wikipedia atawa agén, anggota, pangurus, atawa pamaké séjénna.    
 Mérk dagang, mérk layanan, mérks koléktif, hak desain, hak pribadi atawa hak sarupa anu disebutkeun, anu dipaké atawa dikutip dina artikel tina Wikipédia nyaéta milik masing-masing nu bogana. Dipakéna dina Wikipédia lain harti Anjeun bisa make pikeun tujuan lain salian pikeun eusi anu sarua atawa mirip dijieun ku panulis asli tia artikel Wikipedia ieu di handapeun lisénsi GDFL. Iwal situs Wikipedia jeung Wikimedia nyebutkeun lain deui, anu teu dirojong atawa boga hubungan jeung salah sahiji nu nyepeng éta hak, sarta Wikipédia teu bisa mere hak pikeun make bahan-bahan lain anu dilindung.  .
 Kudu dicatet yén informasi anu kapanggih di dieu mungkin baé ngalanggar hukum nagara atawa yurisdiksi ti tempat Anjeun ningali informasi ieu.   teu ngadorong pikeun ngalanggar hukum naon baé, tapi lantara ieu informasi disimpen di nagara bagian   di  , mangka sagala rupa eusina aya dina referénsi panyalindungan   di handapeun prinsip-prinsip Deklarasi Universal Hak Asasi Manusia ti  . Undang-undang di nagara Anjeun mungkin teu mikawanoh sacara lega panyalindung kabébasan nyarita minangka undang-undang Amérika Serikat atawa prinsip-prinsip Piagem PBB, sarta ku kituna   teu bisa tanggung jawab kana poténsi pelanggaran hukum samodél kitu kudu ditumbukeun kana domain ieu atawa  maké informasi anu dikandung dina ieu kaca.
 Wikipedia téh teu saragem dina prosés ngulas artikelna sacara babarengan, bisa waé hiji artikel aya anu ngoréksi kasalahan atawa ngahapus saran anu salah. Maranéhna teu boga kawajiban hukum pikeun ngalakukeun éta hal, nu matak sakabéh informasi anu dibaca di dieu teu dibarengan ku jaminan kaluyuan pikeun tujuan naoan waé atawa maké naon waé.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the  ; neither is anyone at   responsible should soméone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Hatur nuhun parantos ngaluangkeun waktosna kanggo maos kaca ieu, mangga dihaturanan kanggo ngaraoskeun pangalaman di  . 


URL: https://be-tarask.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D1%96%D0%BA%D1%96%D0%BF%D1%8D%D0%B4%D1%8B%D1%8F:%D0%90%D0%B4%D0%BC%D0%BE%D0%B2%D0%B0_%D0%B0%D0%B4_%D0%B0%D0%B4%D0%BA%D0%B0%D0%B7%D0%BD%D0%B0%D1%81%D1%8C%D1%86%D1%96

Content: Вікіпэдыя, он-лайн-энцыкляпэдыя з адкрытым зьместам, зьяўляецца добраахвотнай суполкай асобаў і групаў, якія працуюць над стварэньнем агульнага рэсурсу чалавечых ведаў. Структура праекту дазваляе любой асобе, якая мае падлучэньне да інтэрнэту, зьмяняць зьмест энцыкляпэдыі. Таму калі ласка, вазьміце да ўвагі, што прыведзеныя ў Вікіпэдыі зьвесткі могуць быць не праверанымі адмыслоўцамі, якія валодаюць ведамі ў адпаведных галінах, каб прадаставіць вам поўную, дакладную або надзейную інфармацыю.
 Безумоўна, гэта не азначае, што вы ня знойдзеце карысных і дакладных зьвестак у Вікіпэдыі — у большасьці выпадкаў гэта так і будзе. Аднак у агульным выпадку   Зьмест любога артыкула можа быць толькі што перапрацаваным, наўмысна пашкоджаным або зьмененым асобай, чыё меркаваньне не адпавядае агульнапрынятаму ў адпаведнай галіне ведаў.
 Мы працуем над тым, каб выбраць і зрабіць аддаць перавагу надзейным вэрсіям артыкулаў. Нашая суполка рэдактараў выкарыстоўвае прылады, такія як стужкі   або  , каб адсачыць новы і зьменены зьмест. Аднак, ня ўсе артыкулы Вікіпэдыі зьяўляюцца аднолькава праверанымі: чытачы і рэдактары могуць выпраўляць магчымыя памылкі або ўдзельнічаць у іх абмеркаваньні, але яны ня маюць абавязку рабіць гэта, таму ўся інфармацыя прадастаўляецца без аніякіх гарантыяў сапраўднасьці або прымальнасьці для выкарыстаньня ў любых мэтах. Нават у артыкулы, зьмест якіх быў правераны або  , пазьней маглі быць дададзеныя недакладныя або недапушчальныя зьвесткі — магчыма, нават акурат перад тым, як вы адкрылі адпаведны артыкул.
 
 Калі ласка, упэўніцеся, што вы разумееце, што інфармацыя, якая прадастаўляецца Вікіпэдыяй, прадастаўляецца вольна, і што не існуе ніякіх дамоваў або кантрактаў паміж вамі і ўласьнікамі або карыстальнікамі гэтага сайту, уласьнікамі сэрвэраў, на якіх разьмяшчаецца сайт, асобнымі аўтарамі Вікіпэдыі, адміністратарамі або любымі іншымі асобамі, якія   з гэтым праектам або яго братэрскімі праектамі, каб вы маглі высунуць любыя прэтэнзіі непасрэдна ў дачыненьні да іх. Вам прадастаўленая абмежаваная ліцэнзія на капіяваньне любых зьвестак з гэтага сайту; разам з тым, гэта не стварае ніякіх кантрактных або пазакантрактных абавязацельстваў для Вікіпэдыі альбо любых яе ўдзельнікаў, сябраў, стваральнікаў або іншых карыстальнікаў.
  у дачыненьні выкарыстаньня вамі або рэдагаваньня зьвестак энцыкляпэдыі апроч ліцэнзіяў   (CC-BY-SA) і   (GFDL); ніхто з асобаў, якія маюць дачыненьне да Вікіпэдым, не зьяўляецца адказным за карэктаваньне, рэдагаваньне або выдаленьне любых зьвестак, якія вы можаце дадаць у Вікіпэдыю або яе братэрскія праекты.
 Любыя гандлёвыя маркі або іншыя таварныя знакі, а таксама правы на дызайн і падобныя правы, якія згаданыя яўна, выкарыстаныя або працытаваныя ў артыкулах Вікіпэдыі зьяўляюцца ўласнасьцю іх уладальнікаў. Іх выкарыстаньне ў Вікіпэдыі не азначае, што вы можаце выкарыстоўваць іх зь любой мэтай, адрознай ад той, альбо падобнай да той, што першапачаткова была выкарыстаная аўтарамі адпаведных артыкулаў на ўмовах, якія адпавядаюць ліцэнзіям CC-BY-SA і GFDL. Калі не пазначана адваротнае, ні Вікіпэдыя, ні іншыя сайты фундацыі «Вікімэдыя» ніякім чынам не падтрымліваюць і не зьвязаныя з уладальнікамі такіх правоў, а Вікіпэдыя ня можа прадаставіць вам ніякіх правоў на выкарыстаньне матэрыялаў, даступных на іншых умовах. Вы выкарыстоўваеце такія або падобныя аб’екты нематэрыяльнай уласнасьці на сваю ўласную рызыку.
 Вікіпэдыя можа зьмяшчаць матэрыялы, якія могуць апісваць жывых асобаў або асобаў, якія нядаўна памерлі. Выкарыстаньне выяваў жывых асобаў або асобаў, якія нядаўна памерлі, у юрыдычных сыстэмах пэўных краінаў забароненае законамі аб правах асобы, незалежна ад статусу аўтарскіх правоў на выяву. Перад выкарыстаньнем такога тыпу зьместу, калі ласка, пераканайцеся, што вы маеце права выкарыстоўваць гэты зьмест у адпаведнасьці з законамі, якія рэгулююць такое выкарыстаньне.  .
 Публікацыя зьвестак, якія паходзяць зь Вікіпэдыі, можа быць парушэньнем законаў краіны або юрысдыкцыі, адкуль вы праглядаеце гэтыя зьвесткі. База зьвестак Вікіпэдыі захоўваецца на сэрвэрах у штаце   ў   і падтрымліваецца ў адпаведнасьці зь мясцовым і фэдэральным законамі. Законы вашай краіны або юрысдыкцыі могуць не дазваляць распаўсюджаньня такіх зьвестак. Вікіпэдыя не заахвочвае парушэньня законаў, а таксама ня можа адказваць за парушэньне такіх законаў у выпадках, калі вы спасылаецеся на яе або выкарыстоўваеце, пераядаеце або публікуеце зьвесткі, якія яна ўтрымлівае.
 Калі вам патрэбная парада адмыслоўца (напрыклад, у галінах мэдыцыны, права, фінансаў, кіраваньня рызыкай або іншых), калі ласка, зьвярніцеся да спэцыяліста, які мае ліцэнзію або зьяўляецца дасьведчаным у адпаведнай галіне.


URL: https://gd.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uicipeid:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the  ; neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://bcl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Pankagabsan_na_pagsayuma

Content: 
 
 MAYONG MAITATAONG GARANTIYA AN WIKIPEDIA, NA AN LAOG KAN IMPORMASYON NA INI, HAMÁN, TAMA, MALALAUMAN ASIN MAPAGKAKATUBUDAN.
 Pigpapasabot na an balangkas kan  , saróng   asin  , na bukas sa gabós nin igwang koneksiyon sa Internet asin sa   (elektroniko) dangan an mga laog kaini, pwedeng báguhon niisay man (talingkas).   pwedeng an mga laog kan mga artikulo sa Wikipedya, BAKONG haman, tama asin malalauman o mapagkakatubudan na impormasyon 
 Alagad bakong boot sabihon kaini na dae makakahampang an mga parabasa kaini nin mga kapakipakinabang na impormasyon sa Wikipedia,   Pwedeng an mga artikulo kaini kapagdaka pigbágo niisay man. An pagbabagó kaini, pwedeng daing kauyon-uyunan sa saimong pigtutubodan o interes. Naggigibo an Wikipedia nin paagi na pilion asin matugutan an mga mas katubod-tubod asin malalauman na bersyon kan mga artikulo, alagad magkaarog man kaito, dae pa langgad matatáwan nin karampatang garantiya. An pinakaharanihon na bagay bilang ehemplo kaini iyo an sa ngunyan na madudugangan sa proseso o pahináng  . Arog pa man kaito, magin an mga artikulo sa irarom kaini, pwedeng mayóng hirak na pigbágo katapos-tapos kaining maisapubliko, o matapos na mabasa.
 Pakiulay na siguraduhong masabutan na pigtataó nin daing bayad an mga impormasyon digdi, asin kun magin arog kaito   o kontratang nabilog sa tahaw kan mga naggagaramit nin Wikipedia asin sa mga Kagsadiri kan sityong ini, mga server, paraambag, administrador, Mga tagamatô asin kan iba pan nakatakod sa proyekto o mga kapanalig manongod sa kun ano man an pwedeng ihain laban sa mga ini. 
 
 Pigtatáwanan an gabos nin limitadong lisensiya para kopyahon an miski anong bagay sa sityong ini, arog pa man kaito, dae namumukná, tugdas, gibo o poon, o nagpupoon nin saróng pang pananagutang kontraktuwal an pagtataó kan nasabing lisensiya, o kun ano pa man sa parte kan Wikipedia asin sa mga ahente, kaapil, paraayos o para'organisa, asin mga paragamit kaini.
 An gabos nin markang pagkakakilanlan, markang pangkalakal, Kagsadiring disenyo, personal na kasadirihan, Kagsadiring karapatan, pankagabsang marka asin kan iba pang kahalintulad na pag-rurugaring naitaram, o piggamit bilan toltolan sa artikulo sa ensiklopedyang ini, pawang pagaari lang kan sara-saindang parapagibo o kag-sadiri.  . Apwera kun nabanggit, dae iniindorso kan Wikipedia asin Wikimedia an mga ini, asin Sa bakong kapanalig, o ka "affiliate" sa mga Kagsadiri kan mga ini. Dae pwedeng magtaó an Wikipedia nin karapatan sa paggamit kan Mga ini, ta an mga ini pwedeng protektado o reserbadong materyales. Nasa saimong kamot an paggamit kan mga ini gayumpaman, igwa man kaakibat na pananagutan an paggamit sa mga ini.
 Girumdomi man, na pwedeng kontra sa mga ley na itigtadhana kan saindong nasyon, o nasasakupan nin Lugar an mga impormasyon sa Wikipedia, kun saen ini pigbibisita. Dae pigkukunsinte kan Wikipedia an mga paglabag na ini, tibaad, ta an mga impormasyon digdi naitatago sa server na nakabase sa  ,  , pigmamantinir ini sa liwanag kan proteksiyon naitadhana kan  , laló na an probisyon kan Enot na Pag-aammiyenda asin mga prinsipyong napasasairarom kan Deklarasyong Unibersal kan mga Karapatang Pantawo kan  . An mga ley hale sa ibang nasyon, pwedeng daeng minasaklaw sa mga proteksiyon sa Karapatang Makapagpahayag kaarog kan sa Estados Unidos o sa karta nin Mga Nasyong Nagkakasararó, at kun magkagayon, mayong pananagutan as miski ano pan paagi, sa kung ano man na potensyal na pagluwas sa mga ley an Wikipedia.
 . Pwede man basahon an mga minasunod:
 
 Arog kan nabanggit, bakong unipormadong napagbalik-adalan an laog kan Wikipedia sa saindang parte o kabuuan, miski na igwang kakayahan an mga parabasa na báguhon, itama o halion an mga bakong tamang suhestiyon o rekomendasyon, mayóng legal na pananagutan o obligasyon na pigsasagibo an mga ini.  
 Mayóng pananagutan o danyos na pwedeng hagadon o gikan sa Wikipedia, ta ini binibilog sana ini nin mga boluntaryong asosasyon nin mga indibidwal na igwang manlaenlaen na kaaraman (o kasalaan), kultura asin reperensiya. Inuutro tabi na pigtatáwanan nin mayong bayad an mga impormasyong laog kaini asin mayóng kontrata sa paagi kan Wikipedia apwera sa lisensiyang  . 
 Minagiromdom tabi giraray, pigpapagiromdoman na mayong pananagutan an Wikipedia sa pagbabagó, paghalí, o pagdugang kan mga impormasyon na taon digdi.
 Dios Mabalos sa panahon na saimong piggugol sa pagbabasá kan pahinang ini asin lugod magin toltol an saimong paggamit, pag-aambag asin pagtangkilik sa Wikipedia.
 Igwa man an ibang ensiklopedya kan sara-saindang pagiromdom. Pira lang an mga minasunod sa sipi nin mga pagiromdom na ini:
 (pigmantinar an mga pangiromdon na ini sa orihinal na sipi asin pagkakasurat - Tataramon na Ingles)


URL: https://sk.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:Vyl%C3%BA%C4%8Denie_zodpovednosti

Content:  ~   ~  
  je otvorená internetová  , tzn. zoskupenie dobrovoľníkov, ktorí vytvárajú databázu ľudského poznania. Jej princípy dovoľujú komukoľvek s pripojením k internetu a webovým prehliadačom meniť jej obsah. Preto je treba upozorniť, že nič, čo tu nájdete, nemuselo byť skontrolované a nemusí obsahovať úplné, presné ani spoľahlivé informácie.
 To neznamená, že vo Wikipédii nemôžete nájsť hodnotné a podrobné informácie, ale je treba si uvedomiť, že Wikipédia sa nemôže žiadnym spôsobom zaručiť za presnosť informácií, ktoré uvádza. Tieto informácie mohol zmeniť či poškodiť niekto, koho názory sa nezhodujú s aktuálnym stavom znalostí v danom obore. Snažíme sa vytvoriť metódy, ako vybrať a ponúknuť najspoľahlivejšie verzie článkov. Momentálne ponúkame túto možnosť pomocou zoznamu  . Avšak aj články tu uvedené mohli byť nevhodne zmenené tesne pred tým, ako si ich pozriete.
 Pochopte prosím, že informácie tu ponúkané sú poskytované zdarma a neexistuje žiadna zmluva medzi vami a majiteľmi či používateľmi týchto stránok, vlastníkmi serverov, na ktorých Wikipédia beží, jednotlivými prispievateľmi, správcami, či akoukoľvek inou osobou spojenou s Wikipédiou.
 Uvedomte si prosím, že informácie tu uvedené môžu porušovať zákony krajiny, z ktorej si ich pozeráte. Wikipédia je proti porušovaniu zákonov, ale obsah Wikipédie je uložený na serveroch v štáte   v  , kde je právo na zverejňovanie informácií chránené Prvým dodatkom   a princípmi  . Zákony Vašej krajiny nemusia poskytovať tak širokú ochranu slobody slova, takže Wikipédia nemôže zodpovedať za prípadné porušenie príslušných zákonov.
 Ďakujeme za Váš čas strávený prečítaním tejto stránky a prajeme Vám príjemné používanie Wikipédie.


URL: https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:Avertissements_g%C3%A9n%C3%A9raux

Content: 
 Wikipédia est un site Web qui propose une encyclopédie collaborative dont le contenu est sous « licence libre ». Wikipédia est alimentée par une association volontaire d'individus et de groupes de travail qui veulent élaborer en commun une ressource complète de la connaissance humaine. La structure même de ce projet permet à toute personne disposant d'une connexion Internet d'en modifier le contenu. Soyez donc bien conscient que tout ce qui se trouve ici n'a pas forcément été examiné par des personnes ayant l'expertise nécessaire pour vous fournir des informations complètes, précises et fiables.
 Cela ne veut pas dire non plus que vous ne trouverez pas de renseignements précis et précieux dans Wikipédia. La plupart du temps, vous en trouverez. Cependant,   Le contenu de chaque article peut avoir été récemment modifié, vandalisé ou altéré par une personne dont l'opinion ne correspond pas avec l'état des connaissances dans les domaines concernés, ou avec la neutralité nécessaire.
 La communauté associée à Wikipédia cherche en permanence à sélectionner et à mettre en lumière des versions fiables des articles. Pour cela, elle utilise des outils comme la page de suivi des   et les   pour surveiller l'évolution des contenus en vigueur et leurs modifications. Cependant, Wikipédia n'est pas uniformément relue par des comités de lecture. N'importe quel lecteur peut corriger des erreurs ou se livrer à une  , mais ces lecteurs n'ont aucune obligation juridique de le faire, et donc toutes les informations lues ici sont sans aucune garantie de fiabilité à toute fin ou utilisation que ce soit. Même des articles qui ont été contrôlés par un comité de lecture informel ou validés par un processus menant à un   peuvent ensuite avoir été modifiés de façon inappropriée, juste avant que vous ne les consultiez. Il convient donc de toujours garder une   des articles.
 Le contenu proposé ici est fourni librement, sans engagement aucun de part et d'autre, et aucun type d'accord ou contrat n'est établi entre vous et les propriétaires ou les utilisateurs de ce site, les propriétaires des serveurs sur lesquels il est logé, les contributeurs individuels de Wikipédia, tout administrateur de projet, les bureaucrates, les développeurs, les administrateurs systèmes ou bien tout autre personne qui n'est   à ce projet ou à des projets fils qui peuvent être soumis à vos réclamations directes.
 Vous disposez d'une licence limitée pour copier tout ou partie du contenu de ce site ; cela ne crée ni ne suppose une responsabilité contractuelle ou extra-contractuelle de la part de Wikipédia ou de l'un de ses agents, membres, organisateurs, participants, ou autres utilisateurs.
 Il n'y a   sur l'utilisation ou la modification de ces informations au-delà de la licence Creative Commons Attribution - Partage dans les Mêmes Conditions 4.0 non transposé . De même, si quelqu'un venait à changer, éditer, modifier ou supprimer toute information que vous pouvez déposer sur Wikipédia ou sur l'un de ses projets associés,  .
 Les marques déposées, marques de service, marques collectives, droits de conception, droits de la personnalité ou droits assimilables qui sont mentionnés, utilisés ou cités dans les articles de Wikipédia sont et restent la propriété de leurs propriétaires respectifs. Leur utilisation n'implique pas ici que vous pourriez les utiliser pour d'autres fins que dans un but d'information (ou un but similaire), tel que prévu par les auteurs originaux de ces articles sur Wikipédia dans le cadre de la licence Creative Commons BY-SA-4.0. Sauf indication contraire, les sites Wikipédia et Wikimédia ne sont ni approuvés ni affiliés à l'un des titulaires de ces droits, et en tant que tel, ne peut accorder à Wikipédia le droit d'utiliser tout matériel protégé par ces droits. Votre utilisation de ces mêmes droits, ou de tel autre bien incorporel similaire, n'est faite que sous votre propre responsabilité.
 La publication de l'information qui se trouve sur Wikipédia peut ne pas respecter les lois applicables du pays où vous êtes en train de visualiser cette information. La base de données Wikipédia est stockée sur un serveur dans l'État de   aux  , et son fonctionnement respecte les législations locale et fédérale des États-Unis. Wikipédia ne s'adresse à aucun pays en particulier. Il se peut que les lois applicables dans votre pays n'accordent pas une telle protection, ou ne permettent pas la publication ou la distribution de ce type de discours. Wikipédia n'encourage aucune infraction à la loi et ne peut être tenue pour responsable d'aucune infraction vis-à-vis des lois, que ce soit parce que vous établissez un lien avec ce domaine, que vous utilisiez, reproduisiez ou republiiez l'information contenue sur ce site.
 Si vous avez besoin de conseils spécifiques (par exemple médicaux, juridiques, financiers ou de gestion des risques), veuillez consulter un professionnel compétent ou ayant la notoriété de connaissances dans ce domaine.


URL: https://bar.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Impressum

Content: Da Obiata vo dera Netzseitn is de  , eidrogn beim   mid da Numma N03000005323. De Wikimedia Foundation is a Stiftung nochm Recht vom US-Bundesstoot  . De vaantwortliche Osprechpeason – gleizeiti   im Sinne vom   – is de  .


URL: https://bo.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 
  -  -    -  -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the  ; neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://sr.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%98%D0%B0:%D0%9E%D0%B4%D1%80%D0%B8%D1%86%D0%B0%D1%9A%D0%B5_%D0%BE%D0%B4%D0%B3%D0%BE%D0%B2%D0%BE%D1%80%D0%BD%D0%BE%D1%81%D1%82%D0%B8

Content: Википедија не гарантује потпуност ни тачност информација ни података
  је сарадничка енциклопедија отвореног садржаја на Интернету, тј. добровољно удружење група и појединаца који стварају и развијају заједнички извор људског сазнања. Сама структура пројекта омогућава свакоме са везом ка Интернету и мрежним прегледачем (Internet Explorer, Safari, Firefox, Mozilla, Opera,...), да мења његов садржај. Будите свесни да било шта што прочитате овде највероватније није прегледано од стране особа довољно стручних да вам пруже потпуне, тачне или поуздане информације.
 То не значи да на Википедији нећете наћи вредне и тачне информације; углавном хоћете. Ипак,   Садржај било којег чланка је могао у скорије време бити потпуно промењен, вандализован или измењен од стране некога чије мишљење не одговара стању сазнања из битних области. Имајте у виду да и друге енциклопедије и референтна дела имају  .
 Радимо на начинима за одабир и истицање поузданих верзија чланака. Наша активна заједница уредника користи алатке као што су   и  , да надгледа додавање новог и измену постојећег садржаја. Ипак, Википедија се не проверава равномерно; мада читаоци могу да исправљају грешке или да се упуштају у необавезне  ,  немају никакву правну обавезу да то раде. Стога све информације које овде прочитате прихватите без икакве наговештене гаранције подобности за било коју сврху или употребу. Чак и чланци који су издвојени необавезном заједничком провером или процесима за избор   могу касније бити уређени неприлично, и то тик пре него што их ви прегледате.
 Молимо вас да се потрудите да разумете да су информације које су овде пружене, пружене слободно и да не постоји никакав споразум или уговор начињен између вас и власника и корисника овог сајта, власника сервера на којем је смештен, појединачних доприносилаца  , било којег од администратора или „бирократа“ пројекта као ни било кога другог   са овим или његовим братским пројектима ко би био директно подложан вашим наводима против њих. Имате ограничену дозволу (лиценцу) да копирате било шта са овог сајта; она не ствара нити наговештава икакву уговорну или вануговорну одговорност   нити било кога од њених агената, чланова, организатора или других корисника.
 Не постоји   у вези вашег коришћења или модификовања ових информација ван оквира   (ГЛСД, GFDL); нити је ико на   одговоран ако неко измени, уреди, промени или уклони било коју информацију коју поставите на   или било који од њој повезаних пројеката.
 Било који од заштитних ( ), сервисних ( ) или збирних знакова ( ), права дизајна ( ), права личности ( ) или сличних права која се помињу, користе или наводе у чланцима енциклопедије Википедија су власништво њихових дотичних власника. Њихова употреба овде не наговештава да их можете користити у било коју другу сврху сем оне исте или сличне информативне употребе која је замишљена од стране оригиналних аутора ових Википедијиних чланака, под шемом лиценцирања ГЛСД. Осим ако је другачије наглашено, Википедија и Викимедијини сајтови нити подржавају нити су повезани са било којих од власника таквих права и   као таква не може да да никаква права на коришћење материјала који је иначе заштићен.  
 Објављивање информација и садржаја Википедије, може бити схваћено као кршење закона неких држава или правних ентитета из којих ви имате приступ овим информацијама. База података Википедије се чува на серверима у држави   ( ), те њихово одржавање и чување подлеже локалним и федералним законима тих правних ентитета и држава. Закони у вашој држави или правном ентитету могу заговарати и бранити сасвим другачије ставове у вези. Википедија не подржава нити охрабрује кршење ничијих закона, те стога не може одговарати за било какво кршење нечијих закона, ни бити одговорна за повезивање садржаја Википедије са интернет доменима, који подлежу другачијим законима, као ни за репродуковање или објављивање информација и података који се у њој садрже.
 Ако имате потребе за неким саветом (на пример: медицинским, правним, финансијским или у вези пословних ризика), молимо да се обратите професионалном стручњаку из области. Погледајте:  ,   и   за више специфична објашњења одрицања одговорности.
 Хвала на времену које сте утрошили да прочитате ову страницу, и желимо вам да уживате у коришћењу и прегледању Википедије.
 Иако је садржај других енциклопедија (које се разликују од Википедије по лиценци под којом се објављују), прегледан и потврђен од стране стручњака и професионалаца из разних области, ипак се не гарантује исправност, тачност и потпуност њиховог садржаја.
 


URL: https://be.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D1%96%D0%BA%D1%96%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D1%8B%D1%8F:%D0%90%D0%B4%D0%BC%D0%BE%D0%B2%D0%B0_%D0%B0%D0%B4_%D0%B0%D0%B4%D0%BA%D0%B0%D0%B7%D0%BD%D0%B0%D1%81%D1%86%D1%96

Content: 
 Нягледзячы на тое, што карыстальнікі могуць выпраўляць памылкі або памылковыя даныя, яны не абавязаны гэтага рабіць. Таму ўся інфармацыя падаецца без гарантыі карыснасці для любой мэты або прыдатнасці для любога выкарыстання.
 Ніхто з аўтараў, удзельнікаў, спонсараў, адміністратараў, аператараў ды асоб, якія яшчэ як-небудзь звязаны з Вікіпедыяй, не адказвае за з’яўленне недакладнай інфармацыі, а таксама за выкарыстоўванне Вамі даных, якія ўтрымліваюцца на гэтых веб-старонках або на веб-старонках, на якія яны спасылаюцца.


URL: https://bh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AA%E0%A5%80%E0%A4%A1%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%BE:%E0%A4%B8%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%AE%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%A8%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%AF_%E0%A4%85%E0%A4%B8%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%A3

Content: 

URL: https://fa.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%DB%8C%DA%A9%DB%8C%E2%80%8C%D9%BE%D8%AF%DB%8C%D8%A7:%D8%AA%DA%A9%D8%B0%DB%8C%D8%A8%E2%80%8C%D9%86%D8%A7%D9%85%D9%87%D9%94_%D8%B9%D9%85%D9%88%D9%85%DB%8C

Content:  –    –   –   –  
 
ویکی‌پدیا، دانشنامه‌ای با محتویات آزاد و حاصل کار داوطلبانهٔ مشارکت‌کنندگان آن است. هدف این پروژه ایجاد منبعی آزاد برای دانش بشری است. ساختار آن به گونه‌ای است که هرکسی که دسترسی به اینترنت داشته باشد می‌تواند محتویات آن را تغییر دهد. پس بدانید که هیچ مطلبی در اینجا پیدا نمی‌شود که به طور قطع مورد بازنگری افراد متخصص قرار گرفته باشد و بدون هیچ تردیدی صحیح و قابل اعتماد باشد. 
 این بدان معنا نیست که شما نمی‌توانید مطالب ارزشمند و صحیح بر روی ویکی‌پدیا پیدا کنید بلکه در بسیاری موارد می‌توانید. هرچند   محتویات هر مقالهٔ آن ممکن است اخیراً تغییر یافته باشد و در آن خرابکاری صورت گرفته باشد یا فردی غیر متخصص اطلاعات ناصحیحی در آن وارد کرده باشد. توجه داشته باشید که بسیاری از دانش‌نامه‌ها و مراجع دیگر نیز   اینجا دارند.


URL: https://so.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Masuul_la%27aan_guud

Content: Ka: Wikipedia.
 
 


URL: https://bg.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%A3%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%8F:%D0%9F%D1%80%D0%B5%D0%B4%D1%83%D0%BF%D1%80%D0%B5%D0%B6%D0%B4%D0%B5%D0%BD%D0%B8%D0%B5

Content: Уикипедия е      , резултат от доброволните съвместни усилия на отделни личности и групи от хора, насочени към създаването и развиването на един общ ресурс на човешкото познание. Структурата и технологията на проекта позволяват всеки човек с връзка към интернет да променя съдържанието ѝ. Трябва да е ясно, че информацията на този сайт не се преглежда непременно от експерти в съответните области, чрез които да се осигури и гарантира изчерпателна, вярна или надеждна информация.
 От това не следва, че в Уикипедия няма да намерите ценна и достоверна информация, напротив, в повечето случаи ще е точно такава. Но все пак Уикипедия не може да   валидността на информацията. Съдържанието на всяка статия във всеки един момент може да бъде вандализирано или подменено с твърдения, които не отговарят на нивото на познание в съответната област.
 
 Направете всичко възможно да се уверите сами, че информацията, която получавате от Уикипедия, е точна и проверена. Направете справки с източниците, посочени в края на статиите. Преглеждайте историите на статиите и прилежащите им беседи, за да разберете дали текат дебати по съдържанието. Сверявайте информацията с   източници.
 В процес на разработка сме на методи за разграничаване между достоверните и недостоверните версии на статиите. Активната редакторска общност използва инструменти като   и  , за да следи добавяното ново съдържание и промените на съществуващото. Въпреки това, съдържанието в Уикипедия не се преглежда равностойно и макар потребителите да могат да поправят грешки или спорадично да участват в рецензиране (peer review) на статии, те не са правно задължени да извършват тази дейност. Следователно не съществуват никакви, дори косвени гаранции за пригодност на информацията за каквато и да било цел. Дори статии, които са преминали през процесите на редакторска проверка и гласуване за   от общността, могат да съдържат неуместни редакции, направени непосредствено преди да ги прочетете.
 
 Срещу Уикипедия не могат да се повдигат искове за настъпили щети, тъй като Уикипедия е доброволно съвместно начинание на хора, които създават онлайн разнообразни образователни, културни и информационни ресурси под отворен код.  
 Информацията в Уикипедия може да породи неоправдан риск за читателите, ако решат да я приложат на практика, да я използват за лични цели или да популяризират използването ѝ пред трети страни.
 Ако някоя статия съдържа твърдения, свързани с опасни, незаконни или неетични действия, не забравяйте, че техническа възможност да добавя такава информация в Уикипедия има  . Авторите на статията може да не са квалифицирани да предоставят пълна информация или да ви посъветват за адекватни предпазни мерки, които да предотвратят наранявания, телесни повреди или други щети на личността, имуществото или репутацията. Ако имате нужда от специфичен съвет (по медицина, право, управление на риска и др.) потърсете професионалист с познания и право да практикува в съответната област.
 Други рискове:   с ниска  , между 4 и 59 херца с пик при 20 херца (т.е. кадри в секунда), е възможно да причинят гърчове у хора с  .
 Уикипедия съдържа статии на много медицински теми, но не дава каквито и да са гаранции за тяхната достоверност. Няма абсолютно никаква сигурност, че което и да е твърдение, съдържащо се или цитирано в някоя статия по медицински въпрос е истинно, точно или актуално. Огромна част от тези статии частично или изцяло е дело на непрофесионалисти. Дори някое твърдение относно медикамент да е вярно, това не означава, че този медикамент е приложим за вас и вашето заболяване.
 Медицинската информация, която Уикипедия предлага, в най-добрия случай е от общ характер и не може да замести консултацията с квалифицирано медицинско лице.   Никаква информация от съдържанието на сайта или на който и да е от проектите на   не може да се тълкува като опит за предлагане или съставяне на медицинско становище или диагноза, или каквато и да е друга форма на вмешателство в медицинската практика.
 Уикипедия съдържа статии на много юридически теми, но не дава каквито и да е гаранции за тяхната достоверност. Няма абсолютно никаква сигурност, че което и да е твърдение, съдържащо се или цитирано в някоя статия по юридически въпрос, е истинно, точно или актуално. Огромната част от тези статии частично или изцяло е дело на непрофесионалисти.
 Законодателствата варират от държава до държава и се променят с времето, понякога много динамично. Дадено твърдение в статия на правна тема може да е валидно само за правосъдната система в държавата на редактора, добавил твърдението в статията. Също така, дори в даден момент правната рамка да е била коректно описана в Уикипедия, възможно е в момента на четене тя вече да е модифицирана или напълно отменена.
 Правната информация, която Уикипедия предлага, е в най-добрия случай от общ характер и не може да замести консултацията с професионален юрист, който има специфични юридически познания и може да ги приложи към вашия правен казус.   Никаква информация от съдържанието на сайта или на който и да е от проектите на Фондация Уикимедия не може да се тълкува като опит за предлагане на правен съвет или като каквато и да е друга форма на вмешателство в юридическата практика.
 Уикипедия е енциклопедия и съдържа много енциклопедични статии за литературни произведения, филми, телевизионни постановки, видеоигри и други. Смята се за необходимо тези статии да предлагат на читателите достатъчно подробен преразказ на произведенията. Много книги и филми обаче веднага губят част от целостта или емоционалното си въздействие, ако сюжетните линии и обрати са предварително известни.
  препоръчва материалите, разкриващи сюжета, да бъдат оградени от предупредителни съобщения. Поради аргументите по-горе това не е задължително в Уикипедия, но често се прави посредством отделянето на материала в раздел „Сюжет“ или ограждането му с шаблони   и  . Читателите, които желаят сами да проследят развитието на сюжета, би следвало да не четат статиите предварително. Това важи и за статиите, които (по една или друга причина) не съдържат предупреждения за разкриване на сюжета.
 Неприемливо е да се изтрива текст от статия, посветена на сюжетна творба, само по причина че той разкрива сюжета.  , енциклопедичният тон и други аспекти на качеството на статиите не могат да служат за оправдание на премахването на такива текстове.
 Уикипедия не се цензурира. Някои статии в Уикипедия могат да съдържат думи или да са посветени на обекти, които някои читатели намират за вулгарни или обидни. Възможно е статиите да съдържат текстове и изображения, до които достъпът за някои култури или възрастови групи е традиционно ограничен, например графично изобразяване на части от човешката анатомия или сцени на насилие. Възможно е някои материали в Уикипедия да отключат  .
 Също така е много вероятно нецензурни текстове и изображения да попадат в статиите в резултат на  . Много внимателно трябва да се добавя и премахва съдържание, което лесно може да се квалифицира като порнографско или изобразяващо насилие.
 Ако само четете съдържанието на Уикипедия, за вас не се снема повече информация, от тази, която по принцип се събира в сървърните логове на всеки сайт. Ако допринасяте към Уикипедия, то вие публично бивате идентифицирани като автор на редакциите или с вашата потребителска сметка, или с IP-адреса ви. Възможно е по IP-адреса и по информацията, съдържаща се в редакциите ви, да се разкрие самоличността ви. Дори ако допринасяте под потребителско име, в някои случаи може да се стигне до разкриване на вашия IP-адрес. Прочетете повече за  .
 Ако допринасяте с текстове към Уикипедия, вие по този начин ги лицензирате под условията на лиценза   и  . Накратко това означава, че:
 Ако не сте съгласни вашата писмена работа да бъде променяна и разпространявана без ограничения под тези условия, не я публикувайте в Уикипедия.
 За да допринасяте към Уикипедия, вие самите трябва да сте в позиция да отдавате съдържание под този лиценз, което означава:
  като автор, вие се съгласявате да получите признание на авторството си по някой от следните начини:   чрез хипервръзка (където е възможно) или уникален ресурсен локатор (URL) към статията или статиите, към които сте допринесли,   чрез хипервръзка (където е възможно) или уникален ресурсен локатор към алтернативно, устойчиво онлайн копие, което е свободно достъпно и съблюдава Условията ни за ползване и което прави признание на авторството по начин, еквивалентен на признанието, което предоставя този сайт, или   чрез списъка на всички съавтори. (Всеки списък от съавтори може да бъде филтриран така, че да изключи много малките или несъществени приноси.)
  ако желаете да внесете текст, който сте открили от друг източник или сте го написали съвместно с други лица, можете да го направите само ако текстът е достъпен при условия, съвместими с тези на лиценза CC-BY-SA. Няма нужда да осигурявате или гарантирате, че внесеният текст е достъпен при условията на Лиценза за свободна документация на GNU.
 Нещо повече, вследствие промяната на лицензионната политика на Уикипедия, влязла в сила през юни 2009 година, вече  . С други думи, можете да внасяте само текстове, които са   единично лицензирани при условия, съвместими с тези на лиценза CC-BY-SA или   двойно лицензирани под GFDL и друг лиценз, чиито условия са съвместими с тези на CC-BY-SA.
 Ако внасяте чужди текстове под съвместим лиценз, който изисква признание на авторството, то трябва да направите това позоваване по някакъв приемлив начин. На местата, където такова признание обикновено се прави чрез историите на страниците (например при копиране в рамките на Уикимедия), е достатъчно признанието да се направи в резюмето на редакцията, което се вписва в историята на страницата при внасянето на текста. Без значение от лиценза, текстът, който внасяте, може да бъде отхвърлен, ако са твърде големи претенциите на автора по отношение полагаемото му се признание.
 Можете свободно да използвате съдържание от проектите на Уикимедия, с изключение на съдържанието, качено със статут на „честна употреба“ или подобните му изключения, предвидени в законите за авторските права. Моля, придържайте се към препоръките по-долу:
 
 
 
 Всички  ,  ,  ,  , личностни права или сродни права, които са споменати, използвани или цитирани в статиите в Уикипедия, са собственост на съответните носители. Употребата им в Уикипедия не предполага да могат да се ползват извън енциклопедията за някаква друга, различна от информационната цел, с която са били поставени от оригиналните съавтори на статиите. Освен ако не е посочено друго, Уикипедия и нейните сайтове не са нито свързани със, нито упълномощени от носителите на тези права, да се разпореждат и да предоставят права за използване на иначе защитени материали. Вие използвате тези и подобни на тях нематериални собствености изцяло на своя отговорност.
 Публикуването от ваша страна на информация, намерена в Уикипедия, може да противоречи на държавното или местното законодателство, което е в сила на територията, откъдето четете тази информация. Базата данни на Уикипедия се съхранява на сървър в щата Флорида в Съединените американски щати, поддържа се в съответствие с местното и федералното право и се ползва от неговата закрила. Възможно е законодателството във вашата страна да не защитава или позволява подобна свобода на словото или свобода на разпространението на информация.
 Уикипедия не насърчава закононарушенията и не може да бъде държана отговорна за нарушаването на тези закони в случаите когато вие поставяте връзки към този домейн, използвате, копирате или на свой ред публикувате информацията, съдържаща се в Уикипедия.


URL: https://bg.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%A3%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%8F:%D0%9F%D1%80%D0%B5%D0%B4%D1%83%D0%BF%D1%80%D0%B5%D0%B6%D0%B4%D0%B5%D0%BD%D0%B8%D0%B5

Content: Уикипедия е      , резултат от доброволните съвместни усилия на отделни личности и групи от хора, насочени към създаването и развиването на един общ ресурс на човешкото познание. Структурата и технологията на проекта позволяват всеки човек с връзка към интернет да променя съдържанието ѝ. Трябва да е ясно, че информацията на този сайт не се преглежда непременно от експерти в съответните области, чрез които да се осигури и гарантира изчерпателна, вярна или надеждна информация.
 От това не следва, че в Уикипедия няма да намерите ценна и достоверна информация, напротив, в повечето случаи ще е точно такава. Но все пак Уикипедия не може да   валидността на информацията. Съдържанието на всяка статия във всеки един момент може да бъде вандализирано или подменено с твърдения, които не отговарят на нивото на познание в съответната област.
 
 Направете всичко възможно да се уверите сами, че информацията, която получавате от Уикипедия, е точна и проверена. Направете справки с източниците, посочени в края на статиите. Преглеждайте историите на статиите и прилежащите им беседи, за да разберете дали текат дебати по съдържанието. Сверявайте информацията с   източници.
 В процес на разработка сме на методи за разграничаване между достоверните и недостоверните версии на статиите. Активната редакторска общност използва инструменти като   и  , за да следи добавяното ново съдържание и промените на съществуващото. Въпреки това, съдържанието в Уикипедия не се преглежда равностойно и макар потребителите да могат да поправят грешки или спорадично да участват в рецензиране (peer review) на статии, те не са правно задължени да извършват тази дейност. Следователно не съществуват никакви, дори косвени гаранции за пригодност на информацията за каквато и да било цел. Дори статии, които са преминали през процесите на редакторска проверка и гласуване за   от общността, могат да съдържат неуместни редакции, направени непосредствено преди да ги прочетете.
 
 Срещу Уикипедия не могат да се повдигат искове за настъпили щети, тъй като Уикипедия е доброволно съвместно начинание на хора, които създават онлайн разнообразни образователни, културни и информационни ресурси под отворен код.  
 Информацията в Уикипедия може да породи неоправдан риск за читателите, ако решат да я приложат на практика, да я използват за лични цели или да популяризират използването ѝ пред трети страни.
 Ако някоя статия съдържа твърдения, свързани с опасни, незаконни или неетични действия, не забравяйте, че техническа възможност да добавя такава информация в Уикипедия има  . Авторите на статията може да не са квалифицирани да предоставят пълна информация или да ви посъветват за адекватни предпазни мерки, които да предотвратят наранявания, телесни повреди или други щети на личността, имуществото или репутацията. Ако имате нужда от специфичен съвет (по медицина, право, управление на риска и др.) потърсете професионалист с познания и право да практикува в съответната област.
 Други рискове:   с ниска  , между 4 и 59 херца с пик при 20 херца (т.е. кадри в секунда), е възможно да причинят гърчове у хора с  .
 Уикипедия съдържа статии на много медицински теми, но не дава каквито и да са гаранции за тяхната достоверност. Няма абсолютно никаква сигурност, че което и да е твърдение, съдържащо се или цитирано в някоя статия по медицински въпрос е истинно, точно или актуално. Огромна част от тези статии частично или изцяло е дело на непрофесионалисти. Дори някое твърдение относно медикамент да е вярно, това не означава, че този медикамент е приложим за вас и вашето заболяване.
 Медицинската информация, която Уикипедия предлага, в най-добрия случай е от общ характер и не може да замести консултацията с квалифицирано медицинско лице.   Никаква информация от съдържанието на сайта или на който и да е от проектите на   не може да се тълкува като опит за предлагане или съставяне на медицинско становище или диагноза, или каквато и да е друга форма на вмешателство в медицинската практика.
 Уикипедия съдържа статии на много юридически теми, но не дава каквито и да е гаранции за тяхната достоверност. Няма абсолютно никаква сигурност, че което и да е твърдение, съдържащо се или цитирано в някоя статия по юридически въпрос, е истинно, точно или актуално. Огромната част от тези статии частично или изцяло е дело на непрофесионалисти.
 Законодателствата варират от държава до държава и се променят с времето, понякога много динамично. Дадено твърдение в статия на правна тема може да е валидно само за правосъдната система в държавата на редактора, добавил твърдението в статията. Също така, дори в даден момент правната рамка да е била коректно описана в Уикипедия, възможно е в момента на четене тя вече да е модифицирана или напълно отменена.
 Правната информация, която Уикипедия предлага, е в най-добрия случай от общ характер и не може да замести консултацията с професионален юрист, който има специфични юридически познания и може да ги приложи към вашия правен казус.   Никаква информация от съдържанието на сайта или на който и да е от проектите на Фондация Уикимедия не може да се тълкува като опит за предлагане на правен съвет или като каквато и да е друга форма на вмешателство в юридическата практика.
 Уикипедия е енциклопедия и съдържа много енциклопедични статии за литературни произведения, филми, телевизионни постановки, видеоигри и други. Смята се за необходимо тези статии да предлагат на читателите достатъчно подробен преразказ на произведенията. Много книги и филми обаче веднага губят част от целостта или емоционалното си въздействие, ако сюжетните линии и обрати са предварително известни.
  препоръчва материалите, разкриващи сюжета, да бъдат оградени от предупредителни съобщения. Поради аргументите по-горе това не е задължително в Уикипедия, но често се прави посредством отделянето на материала в раздел „Сюжет“ или ограждането му с шаблони   и  . Читателите, които желаят сами да проследят развитието на сюжета, би следвало да не четат статиите предварително. Това важи и за статиите, които (по една или друга причина) не съдържат предупреждения за разкриване на сюжета.
 Неприемливо е да се изтрива текст от статия, посветена на сюжетна творба, само по причина че той разкрива сюжета.  , енциклопедичният тон и други аспекти на качеството на статиите не могат да служат за оправдание на премахването на такива текстове.
 Уикипедия не се цензурира. Някои статии в Уикипедия могат да съдържат думи или да са посветени на обекти, които някои читатели намират за вулгарни или обидни. Възможно е статиите да съдържат текстове и изображения, до които достъпът за някои култури или възрастови групи е традиционно ограничен, например графично изобразяване на части от човешката анатомия или сцени на насилие. Възможно е някои материали в Уикипедия да отключат  .
 Също така е много вероятно нецензурни текстове и изображения да попадат в статиите в резултат на  . Много внимателно трябва да се добавя и премахва съдържание, което лесно може да се квалифицира като порнографско или изобразяващо насилие.
 Ако само четете съдържанието на Уикипедия, за вас не се снема повече информация, от тази, която по принцип се събира в сървърните логове на всеки сайт. Ако допринасяте към Уикипедия, то вие публично бивате идентифицирани като автор на редакциите или с вашата потребителска сметка, или с IP-адреса ви. Възможно е по IP-адреса и по информацията, съдържаща се в редакциите ви, да се разкрие самоличността ви. Дори ако допринасяте под потребителско име, в някои случаи може да се стигне до разкриване на вашия IP-адрес. Прочетете повече за  .
 Ако допринасяте с текстове към Уикипедия, вие по този начин ги лицензирате под условията на лиценза   и  . Накратко това означава, че:
 Ако не сте съгласни вашата писмена работа да бъде променяна и разпространявана без ограничения под тези условия, не я публикувайте в Уикипедия.
 За да допринасяте към Уикипедия, вие самите трябва да сте в позиция да отдавате съдържание под този лиценз, което означава:
  като автор, вие се съгласявате да получите признание на авторството си по някой от следните начини:   чрез хипервръзка (където е възможно) или уникален ресурсен локатор (URL) към статията или статиите, към които сте допринесли,   чрез хипервръзка (където е възможно) или уникален ресурсен локатор към алтернативно, устойчиво онлайн копие, което е свободно достъпно и съблюдава Условията ни за ползване и което прави признание на авторството по начин, еквивалентен на признанието, което предоставя този сайт, или   чрез списъка на всички съавтори. (Всеки списък от съавтори може да бъде филтриран така, че да изключи много малките или несъществени приноси.)
  ако желаете да внесете текст, който сте открили от друг източник или сте го написали съвместно с други лица, можете да го направите само ако текстът е достъпен при условия, съвместими с тези на лиценза CC-BY-SA. Няма нужда да осигурявате или гарантирате, че внесеният текст е достъпен при условията на Лиценза за свободна документация на GNU.
 Нещо повече, вследствие промяната на лицензионната политика на Уикипедия, влязла в сила през юни 2009 година, вече  . С други думи, можете да внасяте само текстове, които са   единично лицензирани при условия, съвместими с тези на лиценза CC-BY-SA или   двойно лицензирани под GFDL и друг лиценз, чиито условия са съвместими с тези на CC-BY-SA.
 Ако внасяте чужди текстове под съвместим лиценз, който изисква признание на авторството, то трябва да направите това позоваване по някакъв приемлив начин. На местата, където такова признание обикновено се прави чрез историите на страниците (например при копиране в рамките на Уикимедия), е достатъчно признанието да се направи в резюмето на редакцията, което се вписва в историята на страницата при внасянето на текста. Без значение от лиценза, текстът, който внасяте, може да бъде отхвърлен, ако са твърде големи претенциите на автора по отношение полагаемото му се признание.
 Можете свободно да използвате съдържание от проектите на Уикимедия, с изключение на съдържанието, качено със статут на „честна употреба“ или подобните му изключения, предвидени в законите за авторските права. Моля, придържайте се към препоръките по-долу:
 
 
 
 Всички  ,  ,  ,  , личностни права или сродни права, които са споменати, използвани или цитирани в статиите в Уикипедия, са собственост на съответните носители. Употребата им в Уикипедия не предполага да могат да се ползват извън енциклопедията за някаква друга, различна от информационната цел, с която са били поставени от оригиналните съавтори на статиите. Освен ако не е посочено друго, Уикипедия и нейните сайтове не са нито свързани със, нито упълномощени от носителите на тези права, да се разпореждат и да предоставят права за използване на иначе защитени материали. Вие използвате тези и подобни на тях нематериални собствености изцяло на своя отговорност.
 Публикуването от ваша страна на информация, намерена в Уикипедия, може да противоречи на държавното или местното законодателство, което е в сила на територията, откъдето четете тази информация. Базата данни на Уикипедия се съхранява на сървър в щата Флорида в Съединените американски щати, поддържа се в съответствие с местното и федералното право и се ползва от неговата закрила. Възможно е законодателството във вашата страна да не защитава или позволява подобна свобода на словото или свобода на разпространението на информация.
 Уикипедия не насърчава закононарушенията и не може да бъде държана отговорна за нарушаването на тези закони в случаите когато вие поставяте връзки към този домейн, използвате, копирате или на свой ред публикувате информацията, съдържаща се в Уикипедия.


URL: https://ckb.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%DB%8C%DA%A9%DB%8C%D9%BE%DB%8C%D8%AF%DB%8C%D8%A7:%D8%A8%DB%95%D8%B1%D9%BE%D8%B1%D8%B3%D9%86%DB%95%D8%A8%D9%88%D9%88%D9%86

Content: 
ویکیپیدیا ھیچ بەڵێنێک لەسەر ڕاستیبوون نادات.
 


URL: https://fo.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://be-tarask.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D1%96%D0%BA%D1%96%D0%BF%D1%8D%D0%B4%D1%8B%D1%8F:%D0%90%D0%B4%D0%BC%D0%BE%D0%B2%D0%B0_%D0%B0%D0%B4_%D0%B0%D0%B4%D0%BA%D0%B0%D0%B7%D0%BD%D0%B0%D1%81%D1%8C%D1%86%D1%96

Content: Вікіпэдыя, он-лайн-энцыкляпэдыя з адкрытым зьместам, зьяўляецца добраахвотнай суполкай асобаў і групаў, якія працуюць над стварэньнем агульнага рэсурсу чалавечых ведаў. Структура праекту дазваляе любой асобе, якая мае падлучэньне да інтэрнэту, зьмяняць зьмест энцыкляпэдыі. Таму калі ласка, вазьміце да ўвагі, што прыведзеныя ў Вікіпэдыі зьвесткі могуць быць не праверанымі адмыслоўцамі, якія валодаюць ведамі ў адпаведных галінах, каб прадаставіць вам поўную, дакладную або надзейную інфармацыю.
 Безумоўна, гэта не азначае, што вы ня знойдзеце карысных і дакладных зьвестак у Вікіпэдыі — у большасьці выпадкаў гэта так і будзе. Аднак у агульным выпадку   Зьмест любога артыкула можа быць толькі што перапрацаваным, наўмысна пашкоджаным або зьмененым асобай, чыё меркаваньне не адпавядае агульнапрынятаму ў адпаведнай галіне ведаў.
 Мы працуем над тым, каб выбраць і зрабіць аддаць перавагу надзейным вэрсіям артыкулаў. Нашая суполка рэдактараў выкарыстоўвае прылады, такія як стужкі   або  , каб адсачыць новы і зьменены зьмест. Аднак, ня ўсе артыкулы Вікіпэдыі зьяўляюцца аднолькава праверанымі: чытачы і рэдактары могуць выпраўляць магчымыя памылкі або ўдзельнічаць у іх абмеркаваньні, але яны ня маюць абавязку рабіць гэта, таму ўся інфармацыя прадастаўляецца без аніякіх гарантыяў сапраўднасьці або прымальнасьці для выкарыстаньня ў любых мэтах. Нават у артыкулы, зьмест якіх быў правераны або  , пазьней маглі быць дададзеныя недакладныя або недапушчальныя зьвесткі — магчыма, нават акурат перад тым, як вы адкрылі адпаведны артыкул.
 
 Калі ласка, упэўніцеся, што вы разумееце, што інфармацыя, якая прадастаўляецца Вікіпэдыяй, прадастаўляецца вольна, і што не існуе ніякіх дамоваў або кантрактаў паміж вамі і ўласьнікамі або карыстальнікамі гэтага сайту, уласьнікамі сэрвэраў, на якіх разьмяшчаецца сайт, асобнымі аўтарамі Вікіпэдыі, адміністратарамі або любымі іншымі асобамі, якія   з гэтым праектам або яго братэрскімі праектамі, каб вы маглі высунуць любыя прэтэнзіі непасрэдна ў дачыненьні да іх. Вам прадастаўленая абмежаваная ліцэнзія на капіяваньне любых зьвестак з гэтага сайту; разам з тым, гэта не стварае ніякіх кантрактных або пазакантрактных абавязацельстваў для Вікіпэдыі альбо любых яе ўдзельнікаў, сябраў, стваральнікаў або іншых карыстальнікаў.
  у дачыненьні выкарыстаньня вамі або рэдагаваньня зьвестак энцыкляпэдыі апроч ліцэнзіяў   (CC-BY-SA) і   (GFDL); ніхто з асобаў, якія маюць дачыненьне да Вікіпэдым, не зьяўляецца адказным за карэктаваньне, рэдагаваньне або выдаленьне любых зьвестак, якія вы можаце дадаць у Вікіпэдыю або яе братэрскія праекты.
 Любыя гандлёвыя маркі або іншыя таварныя знакі, а таксама правы на дызайн і падобныя правы, якія згаданыя яўна, выкарыстаныя або працытаваныя ў артыкулах Вікіпэдыі зьяўляюцца ўласнасьцю іх уладальнікаў. Іх выкарыстаньне ў Вікіпэдыі не азначае, што вы можаце выкарыстоўваць іх зь любой мэтай, адрознай ад той, альбо падобнай да той, што першапачаткова была выкарыстаная аўтарамі адпаведных артыкулаў на ўмовах, якія адпавядаюць ліцэнзіям CC-BY-SA і GFDL. Калі не пазначана адваротнае, ні Вікіпэдыя, ні іншыя сайты фундацыі «Вікімэдыя» ніякім чынам не падтрымліваюць і не зьвязаныя з уладальнікамі такіх правоў, а Вікіпэдыя ня можа прадаставіць вам ніякіх правоў на выкарыстаньне матэрыялаў, даступных на іншых умовах. Вы выкарыстоўваеце такія або падобныя аб’екты нематэрыяльнай уласнасьці на сваю ўласную рызыку.
 Вікіпэдыя можа зьмяшчаць матэрыялы, якія могуць апісваць жывых асобаў або асобаў, якія нядаўна памерлі. Выкарыстаньне выяваў жывых асобаў або асобаў, якія нядаўна памерлі, у юрыдычных сыстэмах пэўных краінаў забароненае законамі аб правах асобы, незалежна ад статусу аўтарскіх правоў на выяву. Перад выкарыстаньнем такога тыпу зьместу, калі ласка, пераканайцеся, што вы маеце права выкарыстоўваць гэты зьмест у адпаведнасьці з законамі, якія рэгулююць такое выкарыстаньне.  .
 Публікацыя зьвестак, якія паходзяць зь Вікіпэдыі, можа быць парушэньнем законаў краіны або юрысдыкцыі, адкуль вы праглядаеце гэтыя зьвесткі. База зьвестак Вікіпэдыі захоўваецца на сэрвэрах у штаце   ў   і падтрымліваецца ў адпаведнасьці зь мясцовым і фэдэральным законамі. Законы вашай краіны або юрысдыкцыі могуць не дазваляць распаўсюджаньня такіх зьвестак. Вікіпэдыя не заахвочвае парушэньня законаў, а таксама ня можа адказваць за парушэньне такіх законаў у выпадках, калі вы спасылаецеся на яе або выкарыстоўваеце, пераядаеце або публікуеце зьвесткі, якія яна ўтрымлівае.
 Калі вам патрэбная парада адмыслоўца (напрыклад, у галінах мэдыцыны, права, фінансаў, кіраваньня рызыкай або іншых), калі ласка, зьвярніцеся да спэцыяліста, які мае ліцэнзію або зьяўляецца дасьведчаным у адпаведнай галіне.


URL: https://ee.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content:  enye nunyagbãle si li fãa na amewo katã ƒe zazã, eye wònye ame vovowo kple habɔbɔ vovowo siwo na kpekpeɖeŋu le dɔsia ŋɔŋlɔm le xexeme nunyaŋu godoo. Eƒe nɔnɔme naamɔ amesiame si ateŋu azã   kple   ŋudɔ be wòatrɔ nusiwo le eme. Ne nɔ nyanyame nawò be menye nusianu si le afisia me nunyaladeŋgɔwo kple agbalẽnyalagãwo to be wole eme vavã o.
 Esia melegbɔgblɔm be wòmakpɔ nuveviewo kple nunya vavã le   la dzi o; zigeɖe la, wòakpɔe. Gake   ma ateŋu ado ŋugbe nawò be nusianu si le afisia le eme vavã o. Ɣeaɖewoɣi la, nuŋɔŋlɔa ɖewo ƒe tatawo woatrɔ medidi o, elabena ameaɖe alo nubaɖawɔla ɖe wɔ tɔtrɔa ɖe si mesɔ kple nunyalawo kple agbãlenyalawo le xexeame katã ƒe susuwo o.
 Míele asitrɔm le alesi míatia alo míade dzesi nuŋɔŋlɔwo ƒe tata siwo ŋu ŋugbe le. Míaƒe nuŋlɔlawo zãna dɔwɔnu tɔxea ɖewo abe   kple   tsɔ nɔ ŋkulem ɖe nuyeyewo kple tɔtrɔ yeyeawo ŋu. Habɔbɔa ɖeke meli si toa   la me o; togbɔ be nuxlẽla geɖewo wɔna ɖɔɖɔɖowo alo wotoa nuaɖewo me hã abe  , sea ɖeke meli si na dɔ sia wɔwɔ o. Nuŋɔŋlɔ siwo wotia kpɔ le wome toto megbe hã abe   woteŋu trɔna emegbe elabena ameaɖe vayi wɔ tɔtrɔ vɔ̃ɖia ɖe hafi nevale exlem.
 Taflatse, eme nekɔ na amesiame bena nusiwo katã woŋlɔ ɖe afisia li fãa na amewokatã, eye ŋugbedodoa ɖeke mele wò kpakple afisia ƒe aƒetɔwo kple ezãlawo, amesiwo ƒe mɔwo dzi nuŋɔŋlawo le,   la me nuŋlŋlawo ɖesiaɖe, dɔdzikpɔlawo, sysɔpwo alo amebuba ɖeke si do ƒome kple dɔ sia alo eƒe ƒomedodowo o. Mɔɖeɖea ɖe li be na tsɔ nusianu fãa tso afisia; Esia me fia be gɔmesesea ɖeke li le   kple eƒe dɔwɔlawo kple ezãlawo kpakple wò dome o.
  na nyasiawo zãza alo wotɔtrɔ si mele   (GFDL) mɔɖeɖewo nu o; Ne ameaɖe wɔ tɔtrɔa ɖe le nusiwo neŋlɔ ŋu le   dzi alo woɖe eƒe akpa ɖe la, wòmekpɔ mɔ abu fɔ   alo eƒe ƒomedodoa ɖeke o.
 Dzesi tɔxe (abe  ) siwo  dze le Wikipiɖia la me la nye nutɔwo ŋutɔ tɔ. Woƒe zãzã le afisia mefia be mɔ li na wo ŋudɔ wɔwɔ le goa ɖeke me si to vovo na esiwo woɖe mɔ na le GFDL mɔɖeɖewo te o. Ne wome gblɔe fitaa o la, ekema ƒomedodoa ɖeke mele Wikipiɖia kple Wikimedia kpakple dzesitɔa ɖeke o eyata Wikipiɖia mateŋu aɖe mɔ na ameaɖeke be wòazã nusiwo nutɔwo meɖe mɔ na o la.  
 Ɖewomahĩ   menuwo ɖeɖefia alo woŋɔŋlɔ ada se dzi le dukɔ alo afisi wòle la me.   dɔwo katã le mɔwo dzi le   le   eye wozãa wo le afima ƒe sewo nu. Se siwo le wòƒe dukɔme ƒe mɔɖeɖewo na nusiwo wòateŋu agblɔ alo nusiwo wòateŋu ama na amewo ateŋu ato vovo tso esiawo gbɔ.   me doa ŋuse ameaɖeke be wòa da wo de sewo dzi o eyata ne eda se siawo dzi la, wò ɖeka woa bu fɔe.
 Ne ehiã aɖaŋu na nutɔxea ɖe (le kpɔɖeŋu me, dɔyɔyɔ, sewo, ganyawo) me la, di amesi wɔa dɔ le numa ŋuti. Kpɔ  ,  , and   hã.
 Mieda akpe nawo bena ne gbɔdzi ɖi xlẽ nusiwo le afisia eye míe xɔese be   la zãzã adze ŋuwo.
 Togbɔ be wona agbãlenyalawo kple nusrɔ̃ladeŋgɔwo to nunyagbãle bubwo me hã, yawo hã medo ŋugbe be nusianu le eme vavã o.


URL: https://ba.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%8F:%D0%AF%D1%83%D0%B0%D0%BF%D0%BB%D1%8B%D0%BB%D1%8B%D2%A1%D1%82%D0%B0%D0%BD_%D0%B1%D0%B0%D1%88_%D1%82%D0%B0%D1%80%D1%82%D1%8B%D1%83

Content: , ирекмәндәр тарафынан яҙылған, кешелектең барлыҡ белемен туплаған, асыҡ эстәлекле   -энциклопедия. Интернетҡа инергә мөмкинлеге булған һәр кем уның эстәлеген үҙгәртә ала. Бында килтерелгән мәғлүмәт, ошо өлкәлә тулы белем бирерлек белгестәр тарафынан тикшерелмәгән булыуы мөмкин – шуны иғтибарығыҙҙан сығармағыҙ.
 Википедиялағы бөтә мәғлүмәт дөрөҫ түгел тип ҡабул итергә ярамай, шулай ҙа   Мәҡәләне уҡыған ваҡытта кемдер уны үҙгәртеп эшләүе мөмкин.


URL: https://sl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedija:Splo%C5%A1no_zanikanje_odgovornosti

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W 
  je spletna odprtovsebinska (   ) enciklopedija. To pomeni, da je prostovoljna povezava posameznikov in skupin, ki razvijajo skupen vir človeškega znanja. Njena struktura omogoča, da lahko vsak, ki ima spletno povezavo in spletni brskalnik, spreminja njeno vsebino. Zato bodite pozorni, da ni nobenega jamstva o tem, da je katerakoli od vsebin enciklopedije strokovno pregledana in potrjena s strani strokovnjakov z ustreznim znanjem na posameznem področju, kar bi omogočalo celovito, ažurno in zanesljivo informacijo o kateremkoli zapisu v enciklopediji  .
 To ne pomeni, da v enciklopediji   ne boste našli ažurnih in uporabnih informacij, vendar pa vas opozarjamo, da   na noben način   za pravilnost vsebine v enciklopediji. Mogoče je, da je bil katerikoli del vsebine pred kratkim spremenjen oziroma dopolnjen, podvržen vandalizmu ali ga je spremenil nekdo, čigar mnenje ne ustreza trenutnemu stanju strokovnega znanja na področju, glede katerega potrebujete informacijo. Trudimo se izboljšati načine izbire in odobritve zanesljivejših različic prispevkov, vendar kljub temu nikakor ne moremo jamčiti za njihovo pravilnost. Najboljši trenutni približek temu cilju so  . Vendar je možno, da so bili tudi ti članki neusmiljeno spremenjeni, tik preden ste jih začeli brati.
 Posebej vas opozarjamo, da je ponujena vsebina na razpolago brezplačno in brez kakršnihkoli omejitev. Z njeno uporabo ne nastane nikakršen pravni posel med vami in lastniki oziroma uporabniki tega spletišča, lastniki strežnikov, na katerih se spletišče nahaja, posameznimi osebami, ki so prispevale vsebino, projektnimi vodji ali administratorji, sistemskimi upravitelji ali drugimi osebami, ki so na kakršenkoli način povezane s tem ali s sestrskimi projekti. Zato od njih ne morete ničesar neposredno ali posredno zahtevati. Pravico imate reproducirati karkoli na tem spletišču, vendar pa takšno dejanje ne ustvari in tudi ne podrazumeva nobene pogodbene ali odškodninske obveznosti na strani enciklopedije   ali njenih predstavnikov, članov, organizatorjev ali drugih uporabnikov.
 Vse registrirane znamke, trgovske znamke, oblikovalske pravice, avtorske pravice ipd., ki so omenjene, uporabljene ali navedene v člankih Wikipedije, so v lasti njihovih spoštovanih lastnikov. Njihova uporaba tukaj ne pomeni, da jih lahko sami uporabljate za kakršenkoli drugačen razlog, kot iz tega ali podobnega informativnega razloga, kakor so uporabljene v originalnih Wikipedijinih člankih pod GFDL licenčno shemo. Razen, če ni drugače navedeno, nihče od nosilcev takih pravic ne podpira ali sodeluje z Wikipedijo ali Wikimedijinimi stranmi. Zato Wikipedija ne more zagotavljati pravic uporabe nobenega registriranega materiala.  
 Prosimo, zapomnite si, da je lahko vsebina, ki jo vidite tukaj, v nasprotju z zakoni območja, od koder dostopate do nje.   ne podpira kršenja zakonov. Ker so te informacije shranjene na strežniku na   v  , je vzdrževana v skladu z zaščito, zajamčeno vsem v     in načelih    . Zakoni Vaše države mogoče ne priznavajo tako široke zaščite svobodnega govora kot zakoni   ali načela Združenih narodov. Zato   ne more biti odgovorna za kršenje teh zakonov, če navedete povezave nanjo ali uporabite informacije, shranjene na teh straneh na kakršenkoli način.
 
 , ker je prostovoljna organizacija posameznikov, namenjena ustvarjanju različnih prostih virov spletnih informacij.  . Glede vaše uporabe in spreminjanja informacij med   ne obstaja nobena pogodba ali sporazum razen točk, določenih v  . Prav tako nihče na   ni kazensko odgovoren za spremembe ali odstranitev informacij, ki ste jih vi shranili na   ali katerokoli sorodno stran.
 Hvala za čas, ki ste si ga vzeli, da ste prebrali pojasnila na tej strani. Veliko užitkov pri uporabi enciklopedije  . 


URL: https://zh-min-nan.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Bi%C3%A1n-chek_seng-b%C3%AAng

Content:  -   -   -   -  
  sī lōe-iông khai-hòng ê chāi-soàⁿ ê pek-kho-choân-su, i sī iû kò-jîn hām thoân-thé chì-goān ha̍p-chok khai-hoat ê jîn-lūi tì-sek ê kiōng-iú chu-goân. Chit-ê kè-ōe ê thé-hē ún-chún só͘-ū-lâng thàu-kòe bāng-lō͘ liân-chiap lâi siu-kái i-ê lōe-iông, pēng bô it-tēng iû jīm-hô siong-koan léng-he̍k ê choan-ka hām choan-gia̍p jîn-oân sím-cha kòe, só͘-í Wikipedia mā bô-hoat-tō͘ pó-chèng kā lí thê-kiong oân-siān, chèng-khak, khó-khò ê sìn-sit.
 Che pēng bô tāi-piáu kóng, lí tī Wikipedia lāi chhōe bô ū-kè-ta̍t kap chèng-khak ê sìn-sit, chí-sī chhiáⁿ chù-ì  . Jīm-hô te̍k-tēng bûn-chiuⁿ ê lōe-iông lóng ū khó-lêng tī chòe-kīn pī siu-kái, phò-hoāi ia̍h siong-koan léng-he̍k jīn-ti chōng-hóng bô-kāng ê lâng keng-piàn. chhiáⁿ chù-ì, toā-to-sò͘ ê kî-thaⁿ pek-kho-choân-su ia̍h chham-khó chok-phín mā ū  .
 Tī goán siā-kûn lāi oa̍h-tāng ê pian-chi̍p-chiá ē sú-iōng   kap   ke-si lâi kàm-sī sin ê kap siu-kái ê lōe-iông. Put-kò, Wikipedia pēng bô phó͘-phiàn siū-tio̍h tông-hâng ê phêng-sím; sui-jiân tho̍k-chiá ē-tàng siu-kái chhò-gō͘ he̍k-chiá chham-ú hui-chèng-sek ê  , tān-sī in pēng bô hoat-lu̍t gī-bū án-ne chò, só͘-í lín tī chia tit-tio̍h ê só͘-ū sìn-sit lóng bô tùi chiam-tùi te̍k-tēng bo̍k-te̍k ia̍h it-poaⁿ sú-iōng ê sek-iōng-sèng thê-kiong jīm-hô àm-sī ê pó-chèng. Tio̍h-sǹg sī í-keng iû tông-hâng phêng-sím thong-kòe ia̍h keng-kòe   phêng-soán kòe-têng ê bûn-chiuⁿ, iu-goân khó-lêng tī lí liû-lám chêng chiah siu-kái kòe.
 .
 请确认您了解到，您从这里所获得的信息都是自由、免费的，而且您没有与任何人有契约或合同关系，无论是本站的使用者、所有者、服务器提供商、任何维基百科参与者个人、管理员，还是其他任何与本计划及相关计划有直接或间接关系的个人或团体。在一个有限许可之下，您可以从本站复制任何内容，但这并不意味着维基百科或它的代理人、成员、组织者或其他用户对其承担任何契约性的或契约以外的责任。
 在 （CC-BY-SA）及 （GFDL）之外， 没有协议与使用和修改这些信息有关联；维基百科上也没有任何人应对修改、编辑或移除你张贴在维基百科或其相关计划的任何信息负责。
 维基百科条目中使用或提及的任何商标（包括服务商标、集体商标），或是设计权以及提及的其他权利，都属于其对应所有者的财产。维基百科条目的原作者在此根据CC-BY-SA和GFDL许可方案使用这些商标，但这并不意味着您也可以为相同或类似目的使用。除非另有说明，否则维基百科或维基媒体基金会不会与任何此类权利的所有人存在关联，所以也无法授权您使用任何受到保护的内容。您在使用任何此类或类似无形财产时需要自担风险。
 维基百科包含可确认身份的在世或最近过世的人的传记。在某些司法管辖区，有关 的法律限制生者或最近去世的人的图像的使用，并独立于这些图像的著作权状态。在使用这些类型的内容之前，请确保与你的使用意图相关的法律授予你使用该内容的权利。 
 请注意将您在这里所找到的信息发布出去有可能会违反您所在国家或司法管辖区的法律。维基百科的数据库都是储存在位于美国的服务器中，因而任何内容都受到当地法律和美国联邦法律的保护。您所在国家或司法管辖区的法律有可能没有对相同种类的言论和发行进行保护。维基百科并不鼓励任何人触犯法律，因此如果您链接到此域名或使用、复制或转载本站包含的信息，维基百科无法为可能带来的违反此类法律的行为负责。
 如果您需要具体的建议（例如在医学、法律和风险管理方面），请咨询一名注册或在该领域有能力的专业人士。


URL: https://sd.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%DA%AA%D9%8A%D9%BE%D9%8A%DA%8A%D9%8A%D8%A7:%D8%B9%D8%A7%D9%85_%D8%BA%D9%8A%D8%B1%D8%AC%D9%88%D8%A7%D8%A8%D8%AF%D8%A7%D8%B1%D9%8A%D9%86%D8%A7%D9%85%D9%88

Content: 
 
 ڪوئي به تجارتي نشان،خدمتي نشان،گڏيل نشان، خاڪن يانمونن جا حق يا ساڳيئيءَ طرح جا حق جيڪي ذڪر ڪيل هجن،استعمال ياوڪي پيڊيا انسائيڪلوپيڊيا ڄاڻ چيڪلو مضمونن ۾ حوالا ڏنل هجن، سي تمام نشان سندن متعلقا مالڪن جي ملڪيت آهين.
انهين نشانن جو هتي  استعمال ٿيل هجڻ جو اهو هرگز مقصد ناهي ته ڪو اوهين پڻ انهين کي ڪنهن به مقصد لاءِ ڪُتِب آڻيو سواءِ ان جي ته اهي وڪيپيڊيا مضمونن  لائسنز اسڪيم تحت جي اصل ليکڪ جي غور و مشاهدي سان معلوماتي استعمال ۾ آندا ويا آهن. ٻئي صورت ۾ جيسيتائين  بيان ڪيل  ڪنهن به تجارتي نشاني حقن جي رکندڙسان  وڪيپيڊيا ۽ وڪي ميڊيا سائيٽس  جو نه توثيق نڪي الحاق ٿيل آهي، جيئن ته وڪيپيڊيا انهن حقن جي استعمال ڪرڻ جي اجازت نٿي ڏئي سواءِ تحفظ شدا مواد لاءِ. انهين اموري ملڪيت جي تجارتي نشاني حقن جو توهان پاران استعمال توهانجي پنهنجي جوکم تحت هوندو.
 وڪيپيڊيا  ۾ شامل مواد  زندهه شخص يا  ويجهر ۾رهلت ڪري ويل بابت ٿي سگهي ٿو. ۽ انهن زندهه يا فوت ٿيل شخصيتن جي ڇاپن يا تصويرن جو استعمال ڪنهن دائري ڪارتحت، شخصي حقن تحت محدود آهي. انهن شين کي استعمال ڪرڻ کان پهرئين اها پڪ ڪريو ته انهين جي ارادي ڪيل استعمال ڪرڻ جو توهان کي ڪو قانوني حق هجي. توهان ان ڳالهه جا اڪيلا ذميوار آهيو ۽ پڪ ڪيو ته توهان ڪنهن ٻئي جي شخصي حقن جي خلاف ورزي نه ڪيو. 
 ٿي سهگي ٿو ته وڪي پيڊيا تي لڀيل، ڇاپيل ڄاڻ جو مواد انهيءَ ملڪ ۾ قانون يا دائري اختيار  جي خلاف ورزي هجي جتان اوهان اها ڄاڻ ڏسي رهيا هجو. وڪي پيڊيا جي ڊيٽابيس  آمريڪا ۾ ڪمپيوٽر سرورز تي ذخيرو ٿيل آهي ۽  مڪاني ۽  وفاقي قانون سان مهيا ٿيل تحفظات تحت برقرار آهي.
توهانجي ملڪ جو قانون ۽ دائري ڪار شايدساڳيئي طرح جي تقرير و تقسيم جو تحفظ فراهم نه ڪندو هجي. وڪي پيڊيا ڪنهن به قسم جي قانوني خلاف ورزي کي نٿي همٿائي ۽ اهڙي ڪنهن به قانوني خلاف ورزي جي ذميدار ناهي
 جيڪڏنهن توهان کي مخصوص صلاح مشوري جي ضرورت آهي(جيئن طبي،قانوني،مالي يا وري خطر انتظامي) ته لاڳاپيل شعبي جي  ڪنهن سنديافتا ماهر سان رابطو ڪريو.


URL: https://eo.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikipedio:Malgarantio

Content: Tiu ĉi interreta enciklopedio estas verkata de la publiko. Kvankam preskaŭ ĉiu kunlaboranto provas serioze disponigi ĝustajn informojn, ne eblas tion garantii. Ĉiu kiu kredas esti kompetenta rajtas fari ŝanĝojn je la tekstoj. Ja evidenta eraro ĝenerale sufiĉe rapide de alia kunlaboranto estos rimarkita kaj korektita. Estas tendenco ke artikoloj pliampleksiĝas kaj plikorektiĝas. Ĉar: ju pli da okuloj, des malpli da eraroj.
 Estas ĉiukaze konsilinde krom tiun ĉi enciklopedion ankaŭ konsulti aliajn referencverkojn aŭ librojn pri specifa fako. Atentu specife pri informoj kiuj estas verkitaj de pasiitaj ŝatantoj de certaj personoj, libroj, filmoj, ktp. Povas esti troigoj :-)
 Se vi opinias tekstoparton malĝusta, vi rajtas libere ĝin korekti se vi certas. Se vi dubas kaj volas fari rimarkon pri la artikolo, tion vi povas fari en la diskutopaĝo kiun ĉiu artikolo enhavas. Nepre tion faru por helpi en la plibonigo de Vikipedio!
 La volontuloj kiuj verkas tiun ĉi enciklopedion (tio estas la publiko, do ankaŭ vi) ne akceptas respondecon pri la ĝusteco de la donitaj informoj. Ili ne povas garantii ke la aŭtoro estis sufiĉe atentema verkante la artikolojn. Vi rajtas tutlibere uzi la informojn, sed proprariske.
 Ekzistas uzantoj ( ) kiuj havas kromajn eblecojn je teknika nivelo. Ili rajtas forigi paĝojn, protekti ilin kaj malebligi al uzanto la verkorajton. Estas eblecoj kiujn la ordinaraj kunlaborantoj ne havas. Tiu ĉi grupo de volontuloj ne estas la retejestroj de Vikipedio, sed vi povas ilin kompari kun domgardistoj de la enciklopedio. Estas plenuma funkcio. La ĉiutagan estradon de la Vikipedio praktike iniciatas la komunumo mem.
 Laŭ jura vidpunkto la   estas la sola fina respondeculo. Se laŭ vi estas iu problemo, unue kontaktu administranton de la esperantlingva Vikipedio. Eblas sendi plendo(j)n, en la angla lingvo, al adreso de  .
 Ĉiuj tekstoj en Vikipedio estas licencitaj laŭ la libera permesilo  . Multaj tekstoj estas ankaŭ sub  , se neniu elmetis en ilin verkon el ekster Vikipedio, kiu verko estas sub CC by-sa sed ne sub GFDL. Se vi mem rimarkas tekston kiu devenas de fonto kun alia aŭtorrajto, bv. tion sciigi aŭ mem ŝanĝi la tekston.
 Neteksta materialo ne ĉiam estas libera laŭ CC by-sa aŭ GFDL. Povas ekzisti limigo por ĝia uzo. La uzanto de Vikipedio devas pri tio mem atenti. Klakante je la materialo en Vikipedio vi povas ekscii pri la rajtoj. Se ne estas mencioj pri aŭtoraj rajtoj ĉe la materialo, gravas supozi ke tamen ekzistas rajtoj kaj ke la materialo ne rajtas esti uzata.


URL: https://ba.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%8F:%D0%AF%D1%83%D0%B0%D0%BF%D0%BB%D1%8B%D0%BB%D1%8B%D2%A1%D1%82%D0%B0%D0%BD_%D0%B1%D0%B0%D1%88_%D1%82%D0%B0%D1%80%D1%82%D1%8B%D1%83

Content: , ирекмәндәр тарафынан яҙылған, кешелектең барлыҡ белемен туплаған, асыҡ эстәлекле   -энциклопедия. Интернетҡа инергә мөмкинлеге булған һәр кем уның эстәлеген үҙгәртә ала. Бында килтерелгән мәғлүмәт, ошо өлкәлә тулы белем бирерлек белгестәр тарафынан тикшерелмәгән булыуы мөмкин – шуны иғтибарығыҙҙан сығармағыҙ.
 Википедиялағы бөтә мәғлүмәт дөрөҫ түгел тип ҡабул итергә ярамай, шулай ҙа   Мәҡәләне уҡыған ваҡытта кемдер уны үҙгәртеп эшләүе мөмкин.


URL: https://bh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AA%E0%A5%80%E0%A4%A1%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%BE:%E0%A4%B8%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%AE%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%A8%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%AF_%E0%A4%85%E0%A4%B8%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%A3

Content: 

URL: https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 
  – 
  – 
  – 
  –  
 
 
 
 Wikipedia is an encyclopedia on the Internet that is edited by anyone who wants to help. The way it works means that anyone with who can view the Internet can change what is written. When you read Wikipedia, you should remember that we cannot make sure that our information is checked by people who can make it complete, accurate or reliable.
 That does not mean that there is not useful, correct information in Wikipedia; there is lots.  However,   Any article may have been changed or vandalized by someone who thinks they know what is correct, but is not aware of the current facts of the topics they are writing about.
 We are developing ways to find versions of articles which are more correct, and show them to our readers. The people who help make Wikipedia use up-to-date lists like the   and   to watch new and changing pages. However, Wikipedia is not all checked by experts. Although readers might correct errors and some experts may  , they do not have a   to make changes. So, just because we have information here, this does not mean that we think it is all true, or useful for anything you want to do with it. We are not promising you that it is correct. Before you think that something might be correct, remember that   articles might have been badly changed to be wrong just before you see them, even ones that had - before - been   by experts or chosen as  .
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC-BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or deceased recently. The use of images of living or recently deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.  
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution. Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.
 Thank you for reading this; we hope you enjoy your time at Simple English Wikipedia.
 


URL: https://eu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Erantzukizunen_mugaketa_orokorra

Content:  edukiera irekia da, beraz, pertsona ezberdinen ekarpenekin egindako entziklopedia bat da. Internetarako konexioa eta nabigatzailea duen edonork aldatu ditzake artikuluak. Horregatik, kontuan eduki behar duzu artikulu guztiak ez dituztela gaian jakitunak direnak egin. Honek ez du esan nahi ez dela informazio zehatz edo fidakorra, horrela izango da gehienetan; baina Wikipediak ezin du artikulu guztien egiaztasuna bermatu.
 
  da Wikipediak erabiltzen duen lizentzia.
 Informazio guztia erabiltzeko askatasun guztia duzu, beti ere, lizentzia errespetatuz. Lizentziari buruzko azalpenak orrialde   ematen dira (ez da testu legal bat).
 Hemen biltzen den informazioa dohainik eskaintzen da, zure eta gune honen jabe edo erabiltzaileen artean inolako kontratu edo akordiorik sortu gabe. Esandako lizentzia horretan oinarrituz nahi dituzun aldaketa guztiak egin ditzakezu orrietan baina   edo  lizentzia galdu gabe. Hau da, beste batzuei ere aldaketak egitea baimenduz.
 Baliteke Wikipediak zure sentimenduak iraintzen duen materiala izatea, adingabekoentzako aproposa ez dena edo zure herrialdean debekatuta dagoena. Hau arazo bat izan badaiteke, mesedez ez erabili.


URL: https://zh-min-nan.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Bi%C3%A1n-chek_seng-b%C3%AAng

Content:  -   -   -   -  
  sī lōe-iông khai-hòng ê chāi-soàⁿ ê pek-kho-choân-su, i sī iû kò-jîn hām thoân-thé chì-goān ha̍p-chok khai-hoat ê jîn-lūi tì-sek ê kiōng-iú chu-goân. Chit-ê kè-ōe ê thé-hē ún-chún só͘-ū-lâng thàu-kòe bāng-lō͘ liân-chiap lâi siu-kái i-ê lōe-iông, pēng bô it-tēng iû jīm-hô siong-koan léng-he̍k ê choan-ka hām choan-gia̍p jîn-oân sím-cha kòe, só͘-í Wikipedia mā bô-hoat-tō͘ pó-chèng kā lí thê-kiong oân-siān, chèng-khak, khó-khò ê sìn-sit.
 Che pēng bô tāi-piáu kóng, lí tī Wikipedia lāi chhōe bô ū-kè-ta̍t kap chèng-khak ê sìn-sit, chí-sī chhiáⁿ chù-ì  . Jīm-hô te̍k-tēng bûn-chiuⁿ ê lōe-iông lóng ū khó-lêng tī chòe-kīn pī siu-kái, phò-hoāi ia̍h siong-koan léng-he̍k jīn-ti chōng-hóng bô-kāng ê lâng keng-piàn. chhiáⁿ chù-ì, toā-to-sò͘ ê kî-thaⁿ pek-kho-choân-su ia̍h chham-khó chok-phín mā ū  .
 Tī goán siā-kûn lāi oa̍h-tāng ê pian-chi̍p-chiá ē sú-iōng   kap   ke-si lâi kàm-sī sin ê kap siu-kái ê lōe-iông. Put-kò, Wikipedia pēng bô phó͘-phiàn siū-tio̍h tông-hâng ê phêng-sím; sui-jiân tho̍k-chiá ē-tàng siu-kái chhò-gō͘ he̍k-chiá chham-ú hui-chèng-sek ê  , tān-sī in pēng bô hoat-lu̍t gī-bū án-ne chò, só͘-í lín tī chia tit-tio̍h ê só͘-ū sìn-sit lóng bô tùi chiam-tùi te̍k-tēng bo̍k-te̍k ia̍h it-poaⁿ sú-iōng ê sek-iōng-sèng thê-kiong jīm-hô àm-sī ê pó-chèng. Tio̍h-sǹg sī í-keng iû tông-hâng phêng-sím thong-kòe ia̍h keng-kòe   phêng-soán kòe-têng ê bûn-chiuⁿ, iu-goân khó-lêng tī lí liû-lám chêng chiah siu-kái kòe.
 .
 请确认您了解到，您从这里所获得的信息都是自由、免费的，而且您没有与任何人有契约或合同关系，无论是本站的使用者、所有者、服务器提供商、任何维基百科参与者个人、管理员，还是其他任何与本计划及相关计划有直接或间接关系的个人或团体。在一个有限许可之下，您可以从本站复制任何内容，但这并不意味着维基百科或它的代理人、成员、组织者或其他用户对其承担任何契约性的或契约以外的责任。
 在 （CC-BY-SA）及 （GFDL）之外， 没有协议与使用和修改这些信息有关联；维基百科上也没有任何人应对修改、编辑或移除你张贴在维基百科或其相关计划的任何信息负责。
 维基百科条目中使用或提及的任何商标（包括服务商标、集体商标），或是设计权以及提及的其他权利，都属于其对应所有者的财产。维基百科条目的原作者在此根据CC-BY-SA和GFDL许可方案使用这些商标，但这并不意味着您也可以为相同或类似目的使用。除非另有说明，否则维基百科或维基媒体基金会不会与任何此类权利的所有人存在关联，所以也无法授权您使用任何受到保护的内容。您在使用任何此类或类似无形财产时需要自担风险。
 维基百科包含可确认身份的在世或最近过世的人的传记。在某些司法管辖区，有关 的法律限制生者或最近去世的人的图像的使用，并独立于这些图像的著作权状态。在使用这些类型的内容之前，请确保与你的使用意图相关的法律授予你使用该内容的权利。 
 请注意将您在这里所找到的信息发布出去有可能会违反您所在国家或司法管辖区的法律。维基百科的数据库都是储存在位于美国的服务器中，因而任何内容都受到当地法律和美国联邦法律的保护。您所在国家或司法管辖区的法律有可能没有对相同种类的言论和发行进行保护。维基百科并不鼓励任何人触犯法律，因此如果您链接到此域名或使用、复制或转载本站包含的信息，维基百科无法为可能带来的违反此类法律的行为负责。
 如果您需要具体的建议（例如在医学、法律和风险管理方面），请咨询一名注册或在该领域有能力的专业人士。


URL: https://si.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B7%80%E0%B7%92%E0%B6%9A%E0%B7%92%E0%B6%B4%E0%B7%93%E0%B6%A9%E0%B7%92%E0%B6%BA%E0%B7%8F:%E0%B6%B4%E0%B7%9C%E0%B6%AF%E0%B7%94_%E0%B7%80%E0%B7%92%E0%B6%BA%E0%B7%8F%E0%B6%A0%E0%B6%B1%E0%B6%BA

Content: 
 විකිපීඩියා යනු මාර්ගගත, විවෘත-අන්තර්ගත, හා  සහයෝගීත්වය මග පදනම් වූ විශ්වකෝෂයක් එනම්, මානව දැනුම පිළිබඳ පොදු සම්පතක් පිළියෙල කිරීම සඳහා නියැලෙන තනි පුද්ගලයන් හා කණ්ඩායම් වල ස්වේච්ඡා එකමුතුවකි. අන්තර්ජාල සම්බන්ධතාවයක් හිමි ඕනෑම අයෙකුට එහි අන්තර්ගතය වෙනස් කිරීමට මෙම ව්‍යාපෘතියෙහි ව්‍යුහය ඉඩ සලසයි.  මෙහි ඔබ හට හමුවන කිසිදු ‍තොරතුරක්, උචිත ප්‍රවීණතාවකින් හෙබි අයවලුන් විසින්  සමාලෝචනය කොට,  පරිපූර්ණ, නිරවද්‍ය ‍ හෝ විශ්වසනීය බවට සහතික කර නැති බව කරුණාවෙන් සලකන්න.
 විකිපීඩියාව තුළින් වටිනා හා නිරවද්‍ය තොරතුරු උකහා ගත නොහැකි බවක් මෙයින් කිසිසේත් ගම්‍ය නොවේ; බොහෝ විට එවැනි මහඟු අවස්ථා හිමි වේ.  එනමුදු,    ප්‍රස්තූත ක්ෂේත්‍රයන්හි අනුභූතිය පිළිබඳ වත්මන් ස්වභාවයට අනූරූප නොවන්නාවූ මතයන් දරන කිසියම් අයෙකු විසින්, ඕනෑම ලිපියක අන්තර්ගතය මෑතකදී වෙනස්කිරීමට,  විරූපී කිරීමට හෝ විවර්තනය කිරීමට ලක් වී තිබිය හැකිය.  
 ලිපි වල විශ්වාසනීය අනුවාදයන් තෝරා ඒවා ඉස්මතු කර පෙන්වීමේ පිළිවෙතක් අප විසින් සකස් කරමින් පවතියි.  නව හා වෙනස් වන්නාවූ අන්තර්ගතය පිළිබඳ අවධානයෙන් පසුවීම හැකි කරවන තොරතුරු  පෝෂක ලෙස, අපගේ ක්‍රියාශීලි සංස්කාරක ප්‍රජාව විසින්,    හා   වැනි මෙවලම් භාවිතා කරයි.  එනමුදු, විකිපීඩියාව සමජාතීය ලෙස, සමානයන් විසින් සමාලෝචනය කිරීමක් සිදු නොවේ; පාඨකයන් විසින් දොස් නිදොස් කළ හැකි අතර ඔවුනට අනියම් අයුරින්   සහභාගී වීමටද  හැකි නමුදු එසේ සිදු කළ යුතු බවට ඔවුන් නෛතික ලෙස බැඳී නොමැති අතර, එමනිසාම මෙහිදී කියැවීමට ලැබෙන සියලු තොරතුරු කුමක් නමුත් කාර්යයකට සුදුසු බවට ගම්‍යමාන යෝග්‍යතා වගකීමක් සහිත නොවන බව සැලකිය යුතු වේ.  අවිධිමත් ලෙස සමානයන්ගේ සමාලෝචනයට හෝ    සැකසුමෙහි කාර්යාවලියට බඳුන් වී  එතුළින් අගැයුමට භාජනය වූ  ලිපි වුවද,  ඉක්බිතිව හා ඔබ විසින් ඒවා නැරඹීමට මෙහොතකට පෙර, නුසුදුසු ලෙස සංස්කරණයට ලක් වී තිබීමට ඉඩ කඩ ඇත.
 
 මෙහි සැපයෙන තොරතුරු නිදහස් ලෙස සැපයෙන බවද, ඔබ හා මෙම අඩවියෙහි අයිතිකරුවන් හෝ පරිශීලකයන්, මෙම අඩවිය නිවසන සර්වරයෙහි හිමිකරුවන්, විකිපීඩියාවට පුද්ගලිකව දායකවන්නන්, ව්‍යාපෘති පරිපාලකවරුන්, පද්ධති-මෙහෙයවන්නන් හෝ  අතුරින් කෙනෙක්,   අතර කිසිදු බැඳුම්කරයක් හෝ ගිවිසුම් පත්‍රයක් බලපැවැත්වෙන්නේ නොමැති බවද,  මෙහි සපයා ඇති තොරතුරු නොමිලේ ලබා දෙන බවද, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extra-contractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 මෙම තොරතුරු ඔබ විසින් භාවිතය හෝ වෙනස් කිරීම් සම්බන්ධයෙන්   (GFDL)එකෙන් ඔබ්බට ගිය ගිවිසුමක් හෝ අවබෝධතාවයක් ඔබ සහ විකිපීඩියා අතර නැත; එමෙන්ම ඔබ විසින් විකිපීඩියා හි පළ කරන ඕනෑම තොරතුරක් හෝ ඊට සම්බන්ධ ඕනෑම ව්‍යාපෘතියක් කිසියම් කෙනෙක් විසින් වෙනස් කිරීම, සංස්කරණය කිරීම හෝ ඉවත් කිරීම සම්බන්ධයෙන් විකිපීඩියා හි කිසිවෙක් වගකිවයුතු නැත.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, or similar rights that are mentioned, used, or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated, Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by, nor affiliated with, any of the holders of any such rights, and as such, Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or recently-deceased. The use of images of living or recently-deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.  
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution. Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain, or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 විශේෂිත උපදෙස් ඔබ හට ඇවැසි නම් (නිදසුනක් ලෙස, වෛද්‍ය, නීතිමය, මූල්‍ය, හෝ ආපදා කළමනාකරණය) එම ක්ෂේත්‍රයෙහි වර ලත් හෝ දැනුමින් පරිපුන් වූ හෝ වෘත්තියවේදියෙකුගේ සහය පතන්න.


URL: https://be.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D1%96%D0%BA%D1%96%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D1%8B%D1%8F:%D0%90%D0%B4%D0%BC%D0%BE%D0%B2%D0%B0_%D0%B0%D0%B4_%D0%B0%D0%B4%D0%BA%D0%B0%D0%B7%D0%BD%D0%B0%D1%81%D1%86%D1%96

Content: 
 Нягледзячы на тое, што карыстальнікі могуць выпраўляць памылкі або памылковыя даныя, яны не абавязаны гэтага рабіць. Таму ўся інфармацыя падаецца без гарантыі карыснасці для любой мэты або прыдатнасці для любога выкарыстання.
 Ніхто з аўтараў, удзельнікаў, спонсараў, адміністратараў, аператараў ды асоб, якія яшчэ як-небудзь звязаны з Вікіпедыяй, не адказвае за з’яўленне недакладнай інфармацыі, а таксама за выкарыстоўванне Вамі даных, якія ўтрымліваюцца на гэтых веб-старонках або на веб-старонках, на якія яны спасылаюцца.


URL: https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Limitaci%C3%B3n_general_de_responsabilidad

Content:  es una enciclopedia colaborativa   de contenido abierto, es decir, una asociación voluntaria de personas y grupos que desarrollan conjuntamente una fuente del conocimiento humano. Sus   permiten a cualquier persona que dispone de conexión a Internet, y de un navegador web, modificar el contenido de sus artículos o páginas. Por este motivo, por favor tenga presente que  .
 Esto no significa que no vaya a encontrar información exacta y valiosa en Wikipedia; así será la mayoría de las veces. Sin embargo,  . El contenido de cualquier artículo puede haber sido recientemente cambiado,   o alterado por alguien cuya versión puede no corresponder con el estado de los conocimientos en las áreas pertinentes.
 Estamos trabajando sobre la forma de seleccionar y resaltar versiones fiables de los artículos. Nuestra activa comunidad de editores utiliza diversas herramientas tales como las páginas de   y   para vigilar las modificaciones y creaciones de contenido. Sin embargo, Wikipedia no es uniformemente revisada por pares; si bien los lectores pueden corregir errores o eliminar las sugerencias erróneas en una   informal, ellos no tienen obligación legal de hacerlo y, por ende, toda la información que se incluya se hace sin ningún tipo de garantía implícita de aptitud para cualquier fin o uso. Incluso los artículos que han sido aprobados mediante revisiones por pares informales o tras un proceso de votación de   pueden ser más tarde modificados inapropiadamente, justo antes de que usted los lea.
 
 La información contenida en Wikipedia se suministra libremente, sin crear ningún tipo de acuerdo o contrato entre usted y los propietarios o usuarios de este sitio, los propietarios de los servidores en los que este sitio web está alojado, los contribuyentes individuales a Wikipedia, los administradores de cualquier proyecto, los operadores del sistema, ni persona alguna relacionada con este proyecto u otros proyectos hermanos. Se le concede a usted una licencia limitada para copiar cualquier material de este sitio; esa licencia no crea en forma alguna responsabilidad contractual o extracontractual de parte de Wikipedia ni ninguno de sus agentes, miembros, organizadores u otros usuarios.  .
 Este   que cubra el uso o las modificaciones que usted haga respecto de la información, más allá de los términos del esquema de licenciamiento mencionado en el párrafo anterior; nadie en Wikipedia además de usted puede ser considerado responsable de los cambios, alteraciones, modificaciones o eliminaciones de cualquier información que usted mismo realice en Wikipedia o cualquiera de sus proyectos asociados.
 Cualesquiera marcas registradas, marcas de servicio, marcas colectivas, derechos de diseño u otros derechos de propiedad industrial que se mencionan, usan o citan en los artículos o páginas de Wikipedia son propiedad de los respectivos titulares. Su utilización aquí no implica que usted pueda usarlos para otro propósito distinto del uso informativo idéntico o similar al contemplado por los autores originales de los artículos en Wikipedia bajo los términos del  . 
Salvo indicación en contrario, los sitios web de Wikipedia y Wikimedia no están relacionados con los titulares de los citados derechos, y por lo tanto Wikipedia no puede otorgar derecho alguno para el uso de materiales protegidos. El uso que usted haga de esa propiedad inmaterial o similares es exclusivamente bajo su propio riesgo.
 La publicación de la información contenida en Wikipedia podría contravenir las leyes del país o jurisdicción desde donde se accede a la información. La base de datos de Wikipedia está alojada en un servidor situado en el estado de Florida, en los Estados Unidos de América, y es mantenida en referencia a las protecciones garantizadas por las leyes locales y federales de ese país. Las leyes en su país o jurisdicción podrían no proteger o permitir las mismas clases de expresión o distribución. Wikipedia no promueve la violación de ninguna ley; y no puede ser responsabilizada por ninguna violación de tales leyes, en caso de que enlace a este sitio o use, reproduzca o republique la información aquí contenida.
 Salvo indicación de lo contrario, las conclusiones, las interpretaciones y las opiniones expresadas en los artículos de Wikipedia corresponden a sus respectivos autores, y no representan necesariamente el punto de vista de Wikipedia. 
La información suministrada  
 Si necesita asesoramiento específico (por ejemplo, médico, legal, financiero, o de gestión de riesgos), por favor solicite un profesional que cuente con licencia o con conocimientos en la materia.
 
 Por el carácter general,  . Si esto puede suponer un problema, por favor absténgase de su uso. Si es menor de edad, consulte a sus progenitores o tutores legales antes de hacer uso de Wikipedia.


URL: https://bn.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A6%89%E0%A6%87%E0%A6%95%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%AA%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%A1%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%AF%E0%A6%BC%E0%A6%BE:%E0%A6%B8%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%A7%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%B0%E0%A6%A3_%E0%A6%A6%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%AC%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%A4%E0%A7%8D%E0%A6%AF%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%97

Content: 
উইকিপিডিয়া হচ্ছে ইন্টারনেটভিত্তিক উন্মুক্ত বা বিনামূল্যের বিষয়বস্তু বিশিষ্ট সহযোগিতামূলক কর্মকাণ্ডের দ্বারা তৈরি একটি বিশ্বকোষ। অর্থাৎ, এখানে স্বেচ্ছাসেবক সংগঠন বা কোনো গোষ্ঠী বা সম্পূর্ণ কোনো একক ব্যক্তি জ্ঞানের সাধারণ উৎসগুলো থেকে মানুষের জ্ঞানের বিকাশে সহায়তা করে থাকেন। এই প্রকল্পের পরিচালনা পদ্ধতি ইন্টারনেট সংযোগ আছে এমন যে কাউকে কোনো নিবন্ধ থেকে তার বিষয়বস্তু মুছে ফেলার ক্ষমতা দেয়। প্রসঙ্গত উল্লেখ্য যে, আপনাকে—পূর্ণাঙ্গ, নির্ভুল বা নির্ভরযোগ্য তথ্য সরবরাহ করার জন্য এখানে থাকা কোনো নিবন্ধের কোনো তথ্য বা বিষয়বস্তু নিয়মিত নিরীক্ষণ বা পুনঃনিরীক্ষণ করা হয় না। এমনকি বিশেষজ্ঞের দ্বারা বিষয়বস্তু যাচাইও করা হয় না।
 একথার অর্থ এই নয় যে, আপনি উইকিপিডিয়াতে প্রয়োজনীয় ও নির্ভুল তথ্য পাবেন না; বরং বেশিরভাগ ক্ষেত্রে আপনি তা পাবেন। যদিও   কোনো নিবন্ধের বিষয়বস্তু বা এর অংশবিশেষ সাম্প্রতিককালে পরিবর্তন হতে পারে অথবা ঐ বিষয়ে জ্ঞানের ঘাটতি আছে বা ঐ তথ্যগুলো রাখতে চান না—এমন কারো দ্বারা ধ্বংস বা মুছে ফেলা হতে পারে। উল্লেখ্য, অন্যান্য বিশ্বকোষ ও গ্রহণযোগ্য কার্যক্রমেরও এই ধরণের   রয়েছে।
 নিবন্ধের নির্ভরযোগ্য সংস্করণ বের করার উপর আমরা গুরুত্ব আরোপ করি। আমাদের সক্রিয় সম্পাদক সম্প্রদায় নতুন এবং পরিবর্তনশীল বিষয়বস্তু নিরীক্ষণ করতে   এবং   মত সরঞ্জামগুলো ব্যবহার করে থাকেন৷ যদিও উইকিপিডিয়ায় আনুষ্ঠানিকভাবে নিবন্ধ পু্নঃনিরীক্ষণের কোনো কাজ করে না, কিন্তু পাঠকগণ ভুল সংশোধন ও   মত কাজগুলো অনিয়মিতভাবে চালিয়ে যান। এটা করার জন্য তাঁদের কোনো আইনগত দায়দায়িত্ব নেই। এজন্য নিবন্ধগুলো কোনো উদ্দেশ্যেই আপনাকে মানের ব্যাপারে কোনো নিশ্চয়তা দেবে না। এমন কী যে নিবন্ধগুলো নিয়মিত খুঁটিয়ে দেখা হয় বা অনানুষ্ঠানিকভাবে পু্নঃনিরীক্ষণ চলে অথবা যেগুলো  , সেগুলোর ব্যাপারেও কোনো নিশ্চয়তা উইকিপিডিয়া দেয় না, কারণ আপনি দেখার ঠিক আগেই সেগুলো ভুলভাবে সম্পাদিত হতে পারে।
 
 অনুগ্রহপূর্বক নিশ্চিত হোন যে, এখানে যেসকল তথ্য দেওয়া হয়েছে সেগুলো আপনাকে বিনামূল্যে সরবরাহ করা হয়েছে এবং আপনার ও এই ওয়েবসাইটের মালিক বা ব্যবহারকারীদের মধ্যে কোনো চুক্তি স্বাক্ষরিত হয়নি। সার্ভারের মালিকপক্ষ সার্ভারটি যেখানে অবস্থিত সেখানে অবস্থান করেন। এই প্রকল্পের বা কোনো সহপ্রকল্পের কোনো প্রশাসক, অবদানকারী অথবা অন্যকেউ তাঁদের বিরুদ্ধে আপনার কোনো দাবির সাথে   আপনাকে এই ওয়েবসাইট থেকে যেকোনো কিছু সীমিতভাবে কপি করার স্বাধীনতা দেওয়া হয়েছে; এটি উইকিপিডিয়ার কোনো অংশ বা এর মুখপাত্র, সদস্য, সংগঠক বা কোনো ব্যবহারকারীর সাথে কোনো চুক্তিভিত্তিক বা অচুক্তিভিত্তিক দায়বদ্ধতার সৃষ্টি করেনি।
  (CC-BY-SA) ও   (GFDL)-এর আওতায় উইকিপিডিয়া থেকে প্রাপ্ত কোনো তথ্য ব্যবহার ও পরিবর্তনের অধিকার আপনার রয়েছে, কিন্তু তা কখনোই   উইকিপিডিয়া ও উইকিপিডিয়ার অন্যান্য সহযোগী প্রকল্পের সাথে সংশ্লিষ্ট কেউ, উইকিপিডিয়ায় আপনার অবদানকৃত কোনো তথ্য বা বিষয়বস্তুর কোনোরকম পরিবর্তন, সম্পাদনা বা মুছে ফেলার ব্যাপারে দায়বদ্ধ নন।
 উইকিপিডিয়াতে প্রদর্শিত, উল্লেখিত বা উদ্ধৃত কোনো ট্রেডমার্ক, সার্ভিস মার্ক, কালেকটিভ মার্ক, নকশার স্বত্ত্ব তাঁদের নিজ নিজ সম্মানিত স্বত্বাধিকারীদের সম্পত্তি। উইকিপিডিয়ায় এগুলোর ব্যবহার এমন ইঙ্গিত সূচিত করে না যে, CC-BY-SA বা GFDL লাইসেন্সের আওতায় আপনি সেগুলো, তথ্যগত বা এধরনের কোনো ব্যবহার ব্যতীত অন্য কোনো ব্যক্তিগত উদ্দেশ্যে ব্যবহার করতে পারবেন। যদি না উইকিপিডিয়া এবং উইকিমিডিয়া ওয়েবসাইটের সাথে তাঁরা কোনো ভাবে সংযুক্ত, তাঁদের দ্বারা অনুমোদিত বা তাঁরা এধরনের অধিকার সংরক্ষণ করেন। অন্যথায় উইকিপিডিয়া সংরক্ষিত বিষয়ের ওপর কোনো অধিকার স্বীকার করে না। আপনাকে এধরনের ব্যবসায়িক সম্পত্তি নিজের ঝুঁকিতে ব্যবহার করতে হবে।
 উইকিপিডিয়াতে এমন বিষয় থাকতে পারে যা এমন কোনো ব্যক্তিকে নির্দেশ করছেন, যিনি সুপরিচিত এবং তিনি বেঁচে বা মারা গিয়ে থাকতে পারেন। যদি কপিরাইট মুক্ত না থাকে, তবে এসকল জীবিত বা সম্প্রতি মৃত কোনো ব্যক্তির ছবি ব্যবহারের ক্ষেত্র কিছু বিচারব্যবস্থায়   দ্বারা সংরক্ষিত। এধরনের বিষয়বস্তু ব্যবহারের পূর্বে নিশ্চিত হয়ে নিন যে, যেভাবে ব্যবহার করতে চান, সেভাবে বিষয়টি ব্যবহারের অধিকার আপনার আছে।  
 উইকিপিডিয়ায় প্রদর্শিত তথ্যসমূহ আপনি যেখানে এই তথ্য দেখছেন, সেখানকার বিচারব্যবস্থা অনুযায়ী আইন লঙ্ঘনীয় হতে পারে। উইকিপিডিয়ার তথ্যসমূহ     অঙ্গরাজ্যের একটি সার্ভারে সংরক্ষিত এবং এটি সেখানকার আঞ্চলিক ও ফেডারাল আইন অনুযায়ী সংরক্ষণ করা হয়। আপনার দেশের আইন হয়ত সেখানকার আইনের সাথে সাদৃশ্যপূর্ণ হবে না। উইকিপিডিয়া আইন লঙ্ঘন করাকে সমর্থন বা উৎসাহিত করে না; তাই এই ডোমেইনের বিভিন্ন লিঙ্কে থাকা তথ্যসমূহে আপনি নতুন কিছু সংযুক্ত, ব্যবহার, বণ্টন, পুনরুৎপাদন বা পুনঃপ্রকাশ করার কারণে কোনো আইন লঙ্ঘনের দায়দায়িত্ব উইকিপিডিয়া গ্রহণ করবে না।
 আপনার যদি কোনো সুনির্দিষ্ট পরামর্শের প্রয়োজন হয়, উদাহরণস্বরূপ: চিকিৎসা সম্বন্ধীয়, আইনগত, অর্থনৈতিক অথবা ঝুঁকি ব্যবস্থাপনা বিষয়ক; অনুগ্রহপূর্বক সংশ্লিষ্ট বিষয়ে নিবন্ধিত পেশাদার বা বিশেষজ্ঞের শরণাপন্ন হোন।


URL: https://sc.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Abbertimentos_generales

Content: 

URL: https://eml.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Avert%C3%A8insi_gener%C3%A8li

Content: <div id="mcAolps1" class="mcPestanya"  >
 C'l artìcol chè 'l è scrit in
   
 A n'se gh'la cheva minga 'd garantìr el verìfichi o i contrôl dal pàgini ed cal sit chè da pert ed sogêt ch'i sìen legalmèint abilitê o ch'i gh'àpien el competèinsi ch'a servìs in di camp ch'a s descòr, mèinter che s'i gh'fùsen, l'informasiòun la sarèv sicùra e da tōr più ala lettra.
 Nisùn avtōr, cuntribudōr,  , aministradōr, sistemìsta, o 'n ètra pert lighèda ala Wikipedia, la pōl dìres responsàbil s'a s cata na quelc infurmasiòun mìa giustèda, ofensìva, e gnanc che quelchidùn al dróva cagli informasiòun lè, e gnanc ed na quelc ruèina gnuda fóra per cal druamèint lè.
 Incòr, la Wikipedia la nn'è minga reviśionèda in manéra uguèla; anc s'a s egh próva, a coréger di erōr, mo a n s'egh'la cheva minga ed fèrel sèimper e anc a n'gh'n è minga al cmànd: 'd in manéra ch'a n'gh'è minga la certèsa che tùti el scrìti i sìen bòuni.
 Per di cunsìli più precîś (p'r eśèinpi ed Medśèina, ed Lēś, in sìm'ai Rìsć) a gh'è da descòrern a 'n profesionìsta ch'al gh'n àpia al tìtol.


URL: https://bn.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A6%89%E0%A6%87%E0%A6%95%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%AA%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%A1%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%AF%E0%A6%BC%E0%A6%BE:%E0%A6%B8%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%A7%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%B0%E0%A6%A3_%E0%A6%A6%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%AC%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%A4%E0%A7%8D%E0%A6%AF%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%97

Content: 
উইকিপিডিয়া হচ্ছে ইন্টারনেটভিত্তিক উন্মুক্ত বা বিনামূল্যের বিষয়বস্তু বিশিষ্ট সহযোগিতামূলক কর্মকাণ্ডের দ্বারা তৈরি একটি বিশ্বকোষ। অর্থাৎ, এখানে স্বেচ্ছাসেবক সংগঠন বা কোনো গোষ্ঠী বা সম্পূর্ণ কোনো একক ব্যক্তি জ্ঞানের সাধারণ উৎসগুলো থেকে মানুষের জ্ঞানের বিকাশে সহায়তা করে থাকেন। এই প্রকল্পের পরিচালনা পদ্ধতি ইন্টারনেট সংযোগ আছে এমন যে কাউকে কোনো নিবন্ধ থেকে তার বিষয়বস্তু মুছে ফেলার ক্ষমতা দেয়। প্রসঙ্গত উল্লেখ্য যে, আপনাকে—পূর্ণাঙ্গ, নির্ভুল বা নির্ভরযোগ্য তথ্য সরবরাহ করার জন্য এখানে থাকা কোনো নিবন্ধের কোনো তথ্য বা বিষয়বস্তু নিয়মিত নিরীক্ষণ বা পুনঃনিরীক্ষণ করা হয় না। এমনকি বিশেষজ্ঞের দ্বারা বিষয়বস্তু যাচাইও করা হয় না।
 একথার অর্থ এই নয় যে, আপনি উইকিপিডিয়াতে প্রয়োজনীয় ও নির্ভুল তথ্য পাবেন না; বরং বেশিরভাগ ক্ষেত্রে আপনি তা পাবেন। যদিও   কোনো নিবন্ধের বিষয়বস্তু বা এর অংশবিশেষ সাম্প্রতিককালে পরিবর্তন হতে পারে অথবা ঐ বিষয়ে জ্ঞানের ঘাটতি আছে বা ঐ তথ্যগুলো রাখতে চান না—এমন কারো দ্বারা ধ্বংস বা মুছে ফেলা হতে পারে। উল্লেখ্য, অন্যান্য বিশ্বকোষ ও গ্রহণযোগ্য কার্যক্রমেরও এই ধরণের   রয়েছে।
 নিবন্ধের নির্ভরযোগ্য সংস্করণ বের করার উপর আমরা গুরুত্ব আরোপ করি। আমাদের সক্রিয় সম্পাদক সম্প্রদায় নতুন এবং পরিবর্তনশীল বিষয়বস্তু নিরীক্ষণ করতে   এবং   মত সরঞ্জামগুলো ব্যবহার করে থাকেন৷ যদিও উইকিপিডিয়ায় আনুষ্ঠানিকভাবে নিবন্ধ পু্নঃনিরীক্ষণের কোনো কাজ করে না, কিন্তু পাঠকগণ ভুল সংশোধন ও   মত কাজগুলো অনিয়মিতভাবে চালিয়ে যান। এটা করার জন্য তাঁদের কোনো আইনগত দায়দায়িত্ব নেই। এজন্য নিবন্ধগুলো কোনো উদ্দেশ্যেই আপনাকে মানের ব্যাপারে কোনো নিশ্চয়তা দেবে না। এমন কী যে নিবন্ধগুলো নিয়মিত খুঁটিয়ে দেখা হয় বা অনানুষ্ঠানিকভাবে পু্নঃনিরীক্ষণ চলে অথবা যেগুলো  , সেগুলোর ব্যাপারেও কোনো নিশ্চয়তা উইকিপিডিয়া দেয় না, কারণ আপনি দেখার ঠিক আগেই সেগুলো ভুলভাবে সম্পাদিত হতে পারে।
 
 অনুগ্রহপূর্বক নিশ্চিত হোন যে, এখানে যেসকল তথ্য দেওয়া হয়েছে সেগুলো আপনাকে বিনামূল্যে সরবরাহ করা হয়েছে এবং আপনার ও এই ওয়েবসাইটের মালিক বা ব্যবহারকারীদের মধ্যে কোনো চুক্তি স্বাক্ষরিত হয়নি। সার্ভারের মালিকপক্ষ সার্ভারটি যেখানে অবস্থিত সেখানে অবস্থান করেন। এই প্রকল্পের বা কোনো সহপ্রকল্পের কোনো প্রশাসক, অবদানকারী অথবা অন্যকেউ তাঁদের বিরুদ্ধে আপনার কোনো দাবির সাথে   আপনাকে এই ওয়েবসাইট থেকে যেকোনো কিছু সীমিতভাবে কপি করার স্বাধীনতা দেওয়া হয়েছে; এটি উইকিপিডিয়ার কোনো অংশ বা এর মুখপাত্র, সদস্য, সংগঠক বা কোনো ব্যবহারকারীর সাথে কোনো চুক্তিভিত্তিক বা অচুক্তিভিত্তিক দায়বদ্ধতার সৃষ্টি করেনি।
  (CC-BY-SA) ও   (GFDL)-এর আওতায় উইকিপিডিয়া থেকে প্রাপ্ত কোনো তথ্য ব্যবহার ও পরিবর্তনের অধিকার আপনার রয়েছে, কিন্তু তা কখনোই   উইকিপিডিয়া ও উইকিপিডিয়ার অন্যান্য সহযোগী প্রকল্পের সাথে সংশ্লিষ্ট কেউ, উইকিপিডিয়ায় আপনার অবদানকৃত কোনো তথ্য বা বিষয়বস্তুর কোনোরকম পরিবর্তন, সম্পাদনা বা মুছে ফেলার ব্যাপারে দায়বদ্ধ নন।
 উইকিপিডিয়াতে প্রদর্শিত, উল্লেখিত বা উদ্ধৃত কোনো ট্রেডমার্ক, সার্ভিস মার্ক, কালেকটিভ মার্ক, নকশার স্বত্ত্ব তাঁদের নিজ নিজ সম্মানিত স্বত্বাধিকারীদের সম্পত্তি। উইকিপিডিয়ায় এগুলোর ব্যবহার এমন ইঙ্গিত সূচিত করে না যে, CC-BY-SA বা GFDL লাইসেন্সের আওতায় আপনি সেগুলো, তথ্যগত বা এধরনের কোনো ব্যবহার ব্যতীত অন্য কোনো ব্যক্তিগত উদ্দেশ্যে ব্যবহার করতে পারবেন। যদি না উইকিপিডিয়া এবং উইকিমিডিয়া ওয়েবসাইটের সাথে তাঁরা কোনো ভাবে সংযুক্ত, তাঁদের দ্বারা অনুমোদিত বা তাঁরা এধরনের অধিকার সংরক্ষণ করেন। অন্যথায় উইকিপিডিয়া সংরক্ষিত বিষয়ের ওপর কোনো অধিকার স্বীকার করে না। আপনাকে এধরনের ব্যবসায়িক সম্পত্তি নিজের ঝুঁকিতে ব্যবহার করতে হবে।
 উইকিপিডিয়াতে এমন বিষয় থাকতে পারে যা এমন কোনো ব্যক্তিকে নির্দেশ করছেন, যিনি সুপরিচিত এবং তিনি বেঁচে বা মারা গিয়ে থাকতে পারেন। যদি কপিরাইট মুক্ত না থাকে, তবে এসকল জীবিত বা সম্প্রতি মৃত কোনো ব্যক্তির ছবি ব্যবহারের ক্ষেত্র কিছু বিচারব্যবস্থায়   দ্বারা সংরক্ষিত। এধরনের বিষয়বস্তু ব্যবহারের পূর্বে নিশ্চিত হয়ে নিন যে, যেভাবে ব্যবহার করতে চান, সেভাবে বিষয়টি ব্যবহারের অধিকার আপনার আছে।  
 উইকিপিডিয়ায় প্রদর্শিত তথ্যসমূহ আপনি যেখানে এই তথ্য দেখছেন, সেখানকার বিচারব্যবস্থা অনুযায়ী আইন লঙ্ঘনীয় হতে পারে। উইকিপিডিয়ার তথ্যসমূহ     অঙ্গরাজ্যের একটি সার্ভারে সংরক্ষিত এবং এটি সেখানকার আঞ্চলিক ও ফেডারাল আইন অনুযায়ী সংরক্ষণ করা হয়। আপনার দেশের আইন হয়ত সেখানকার আইনের সাথে সাদৃশ্যপূর্ণ হবে না। উইকিপিডিয়া আইন লঙ্ঘন করাকে সমর্থন বা উৎসাহিত করে না; তাই এই ডোমেইনের বিভিন্ন লিঙ্কে থাকা তথ্যসমূহে আপনি নতুন কিছু সংযুক্ত, ব্যবহার, বণ্টন, পুনরুৎপাদন বা পুনঃপ্রকাশ করার কারণে কোনো আইন লঙ্ঘনের দায়দায়িত্ব উইকিপিডিয়া গ্রহণ করবে না।
 আপনার যদি কোনো সুনির্দিষ্ট পরামর্শের প্রয়োজন হয়, উদাহরণস্বরূপ: চিকিৎসা সম্বন্ধীয়, আইনগত, অর্থনৈতিক অথবা ঝুঁকি ব্যবস্থাপনা বিষয়ক; অনুগ্রহপূর্বক সংশ্লিষ্ট বিষয়ে নিবন্ধিত পেশাদার বা বিশেষজ্ঞের শরণাপন্ন হোন।


URL: https://az.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikipediya:M%C9%99suliyy%C9%99td%C9%99n_imtina

Content: Vikipediya onlayn açıq məzmunlu bir ensiklopediyadır; yəni insan biliklərinin ümumi mənbəyini inkişaf etdirmək üçün çalışan fərdlərin və qrupların könüllü birliyidir. Layihənin quruluşu, İnternet bağlantısı olan hər kəsin məzmununu dəyişdirməsinə imkan verir. Burada yazılanlar tam, dəqiq və ya etibarlı məlumat vermək üçün tələb olunan təcrübəyə sahib insanlar tərəfindən mütəmadi olaraq yoxlanılmır.
 Bu Vikipediyada dəyərli və dəqiq məlumat tapa bilməyəcəyiniz demək deyil; Bununla birlikdə,  . Hər hansı bir məqalənin məzmunu bu həmin mövzuda məlumatı olmayan biri tərəfindən dəyişdirilmiş ola bilər. Diqqət yetirin ki, digər ensiklopediyaların və istinad əsərlərinin əksəriyyətində də diskleymer var.
 Aktiv redaktor icmamız yeni və dəyişən məzmunu izləmək üçün   və   kimi vasitələrdən istifadə edir. Bununla birlikdə, Vikipediya məqalələri mütəmadi olaraq yoxlanılmır; oxucular səhvləri düzəldə bilərlər, bunu etmək üçün qanuni bir vəzifələri yoxdur və buna görə burada oxunan bütün məlumatlar hər hansı bir məqsəd üçün uyğunluq zəmanəti və ya hər hansı bir şəkildə istifadə edilmir.
  prosessindən keçən məqalələr yoxlanılsada, siz onu oxumamışdan 1 saniyə əvvəl kimsə uyğun olmayan redaktələr edə bilər.
 
 Zəhmət olmasa burada verilən məlumatların açıq şəkildə verildiyini və sizinlə bu saytın sahibləri və ya istifadəçiləri, yerləşdiyi serverlərin sahibləri, Vikipediya istifadəçiləri, hər hansı bir layihə idarəçisi və ya hər hansı bir şəkildə bu layihə ilə əlaqəli olan hər kəs və ya birbaşa onlara qarşı iddialarınıza tabe olan digər layihələr arasında hər hansı bir razılaşma və ya müqavilə bağlanmadığını başa düşdüyünüzdən əmin olun. Bu saytdan bir şey götürmək üçün sizə məhdud bir lisenziya verilir; bu Vikipediya üzvlərində, təşkilatçılarında və ya digər istifadəçilərində hər hansı birində müqavilə və ya müqavilədənkənar məsuliyyət yaratmır və ya nəzərdə tutmur.
 
 Vikipediya ensiklopediyasının məqalələrində bəhs edilən, istifadə edilən və ya istinad edilən ticarət nişanları, xidmət markaları, kollektiv markalar, dizayn hüquqları və ya oxşar hüquqlardan hər hansı biri müvafiq sahiblərinə məxsusdur. Buradakı istifadəsi, bunları bu Vikipediya məqalələrinin orijinal müəllifləri tərəfindən CC-BY-SA və GFDL lisenziyalaşdırma sxemləri çərçivəsində nəzərdə tutulmuş eyni və ya oxşar məlumat istifadəsi xaricində hər hansı bir məqsəd üçün istifadə edə biləcəyinizi nəzərdə tutmur. Başqa bir hal göstərilmədiyi təqdirdə, Vikipediya və Vikimedia saytları bu cür hüquq sahibləri tərəfindən təsdiqlənmir və ya onlarla əlaqəli deyildir və bu şəkildə Vikipediya, başqa cür qorunan materiallardan istifadə etmək hüququ verə bilməz. Hər hansı bir və ya buna bənzər qeyri-rəsmi əmlakdan istifadə etməyiniz sizin məsuliyyətinizdədir.
 Vikipediyada son zamanlarda yaşayan və ya vəfat etmiş şəxsiyyəti təsvir edə biləcək material var. Yaşayan və ya yaxınlarda vəfat etmiş şəxslərin şəkillərinin istifadəsi, bəzi yurisdiksiyalarda, müəllif hüquqları statusundan asılı olmayaraq şəxsiyyət hüquqları ilə əlaqəli qanunlarla məhdudlaşdırılır. Bu tip məzmundan istifadə etməzdən əvvəl, zəhmət olmasa, istifadə olunma şərtlərinizdə tətbiq olunan qanunlara əsasən istifadə etmək hüququnuzun olduğundan əmin olun.  
 Vikipediyada yazılan məlumatların yayımlanması, bu məlumatları gördüyünüz ölkənin və ya yurisdiksiyanın qanunlarına zidd ola bilər. Vikipediyanın verilənlər bazası Amerika Birləşmiş Ştatlarındakı serverlərdə saxlanılır və yerli və federal qanunlara uyğun olaraq qorunur. Ölkənizdəki və ya yurisdiksiyanızdakı qanunlar eyni distribusiyanı qorumaya və ya icazə verməyə bilər. Vikipediya, hər hansı bir qanun pozuntusunu təşviq etmir və buradakı məlumatları istifadə etməyiniz, çoxaltmanız və ya yenidən yayımlamanız halında bu qanunların pozulmasına görə məsuliyyət daşımır.
 Məsləhətə ehtiyacınız varsa (məsələn, tibbi, hüquqi və ya maliyyə), zəhmət olmasa bu sahədə peşəkar bir mütəxəssisə müraciət edin.
 


URL: https://sm.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://el.wikipedia.org/wiki/%CE%92%CE%B9%CE%BA%CE%B9%CF%80%CE%B1%CE%AF%CE%B4%CE%B5%CE%B9%CE%B1:%CE%91%CF%80%CE%BF%CF%80%CE%BF%CE%AF%CE%B7%CF%83%CE%B7_%CE%B5%CF%85%CE%B8%CF%85%CE%BD%CF%8E%CE%BD

Content: Η ΒΙΚΙΠΑΙΔΕΙΑ ΔΕΝ ΠΑΡΕΧΕΙ ΕΓΓΥΗΣΗ ΠΟΙΟΤΗΤΑΣ
 Η   είναι διαδικτυακή εγκυκλοπαίδεια ανοικτού κειμένου, δηλαδή εθελοντική ένωση ατόμων και ομάδων που αναπτύσσουν έναν κοινό πόρο ανθρώπινης γνώσης. Η δομή της δίνει τη δυνατότητα σε οποιονδήποτε μπορεί να συνδεθεί στο Διαδίκτυο μέσω ενός προγράμματος περιήγησης ή της εφαρμογής για κινητά της Wikipedia να αλλάξει το περιεχόμενό της. Επομένως, παρακαλούμε να λάβετε υπ' όψιν ότι οι πληροφορίες που βρίσκονται εδώ δεν έχουν απαραιτήτως ελεγχθεί από επαγγελματίες με την απαραίτητη πείρα, ώστε να φτάνουν σε εσάς πλήρεις, εξακριβωμένες ή αξιόπιστες. 
 Αυτό δεν σημαίνει ότι δεν θα βρείτε πολύτιμες και εξακριβωμένες πληροφορίες στη Βικιπαίδεια, εντούτοις παρακαλούμε να λάβετε υπ' όψιν ότι  . Αυτά μπορεί να είχαν πρόσφατα αλλάξει, βανδαλιστεί ή μεταβληθεί από κάποιον, η άποψη του οποίου δεν αντιστοιχεί με την τρέχουσα γνώση στον ιδιαίτερο τομέα που σας ενδιαφέρει. 
 Η Βικιπαίδεια δεν αναθεωρείται ομοιόμορφα. Ενώ οι αναγνώστες μπορεί να διορθώσουν τα λάθη ή να αφαιρέσουν τις λανθασμένες προτάσεις, δεν έχουν κανένα νομικό καθήκον να το πράξουν και, ως εκ τούτου, όλες οι πληροφορίες που διαβάζονται εδώ παρέχονται χωρίς οποιαδήποτε υπονοούμενη εγγύηση για οποιονδήποτε σκοπό ή χρήση.
 Καμία επακόλουθη ζημία δεν μπορεί να καταλογιστεί στη Βικιπαίδεια, δεδομένου ότι είναι ελεύθερα αναπτυσσόμενη εθελοντική ένωση ατόμων, που αποσκοπούν να δημιουργήσουν εκπαιδευτικούς, πολιτιστικούς και ενημερωτικούς πόρους ανοιχτού περιεχομένου στο διαδίκτυο. Αυτές οι πληροφορίες παρέχονται σε εσάς δωρεάν και δεν υφίσταται καμία συμφωνία ή συνεννόηση ανάμεσα σε εσάς και τη Βικιπαίδεια σχετικά με τη χρήση ή την τροποποίηση αυτών των πληροφοριών πέρα από την   ούτε είναι κάποιος στη Βικιπαίδεια αρμόδιος να εξετάζει αν κάποιος αλλάξει, διορθώσει, τροποποιήσει ή αφαιρέσει οποιεσδήποτε πληροφορίες μπορεί να εισαγάγετε στη Βικιπαίδεια ή σε οποιοδήποτε από τα σχετικά προγράμματά της.
 Εργαζόμαστε στην ανάπτυξη τρόπων με τους οποίους να επιλέγονται και να προβάλλονται οι πιο αξιόπιστες εκδόσεις των λημμάτων. Ως προς το σύστημα αξιολόγησης, η πλησιέστερη εκδοχή που υπάρχει αυτή την περίοδο είναι τα  , αλλά ακόμη και λήμματα που έχουν εξεταστεί με τις διαδικασίες αυτές μπορεί αργότερα να έχουν υποστεί ακατάλληλη επεξεργασία λίγο προτού τα δείτε.
 
 Παρακαλούμε βεβαιωθείτε ότι κατανοείτε πως οι παρεχόμενες πληροφορίες δίδονται ελεύθερα και ότι κανένα είδος συμφωνίας ή σύμβασης δεν δημιουργείται ανάμεσα σε εσάς και τους ιδιοκτήτες ή χρήστες αυτού του ιστοτόπου, περιλαμβανομένων των ιδιοκτητών των διακομιστών στους οποίους φιλοξενείται, των μεμονωμένων συνεισφερόντων στη Βικιπαίδεια, οποιουδήποτε διαχειριστή, χρήστη ή οποιουδήποτε που   με αυτό το εγχείρημα ή με αδελφικά εγχειρήματα υποκείμενα άμεσα σε αξιώσεις σας εναντίον τους. Σας χορηγείται περιορισμένη άδεια να αντιγράψετε οτιδήποτε από αυτόν τον ιστοχώρο. Αυτό δεν δημιουργεί ούτε υπονοεί οποιαδήποτε συμβατική ή μη ευθύνη εκ μέρους της Βικιπαίδειας ή οποιουδήποτε από τους εκπροσώπους, τα μέλη, τους οργανωτές ή άλλους χρήστες. 
 Οποιαδήποτε εμπορικά σήματα, σήματα υπηρεσιών, σήματα συλλόγων, δικαιώματα σχεδιασμού ή παρόμοια δικαιώματα που αναφέρονται, χρησιμοποιούνται ή μνημονεύονται στα λήμματα της Βικιπαίδειας είναι ιδιοκτησία των αντίστοιχων κατόχων τους. Η χρήση τους εδώ δεν υπονοεί ότι μπορείτε να τα μεταχειριστείτε για οποιονδήποτε άλλον σκοπό εκτός από την ίδια ή παρόμοια ενημερωτική χρήση, όπως προβλέπεται από τους αρχικούς συντάκτες αυτών των λημμάτων. Η Βικιπαίδεια υπόκειται στο πλαίσιο της άδειας χρήσης GFDL. Εκτός αν δηλώνεται διαφορετικά, οι ιστότοποι  και  ούτε εξουσιοδοτούνται ούτε συνδέονται με οποιονδήποτε από τους κατόχους οποιωνδήποτε δικαιωμάτων και επομένως η Βικιπαίδεια δεν μπορεί να χορηγήσει δικαιώματα χρήσης υλικού που προστατεύεται με άλλον τρόπο. 
 Η χρήση οποιασδήποτε τέτοιας ή παρόμοιας άυλης ιδιοκτησίας εκ μέρους σας γίνεται με δική σας ευθύνη. Παρακαλούμε σημειώστε ότι οι πληροφορίες που βρίσκονται εδώ μπορεί να προκαλούν παραβίαση των νόμων της χώρας ή της επικράτειας από την οποία έχετε πρόσβαση σε αυτές. Η Βικιπαίδεια δεν ενθαρρύνει την παραβίαση οποιωνδήποτε νόμων, αλλά εφόσον αυτές οι πληροφορίες αποθηκεύονται σε διακομιστές στην Πολιτεία της   στις  , τηρούνται υπό την προστασία που προσφέρεται από το Σύνταγμα και τους νόμους των Ηνωμένων Πολιτειών. Οι νόμοι στη χώρα σας μπορεί να μην αναγνωρίζουν τόσο ευρεία προστασία της ελεύθερης έκφρασης όσο οι νόμοι των Ηνωμένων Πολιτειών ή οι αρχές στο πλαίσιο του χάρτη των Η.Ε. και, υπό αυτή τη μορφή, η Βικιπαίδεια δεν μπορεί να θεωρηθεί υπεύθυνη για οποιεσδήποτε πιθανές παραβιάσεις τέτοιων νόμων, αν τη συνδέσετε με συγκεκριμένη περιοχή ή χρησιμοποιήσετε οποιεσδήποτε από τις πληροφορίες που περιέχονται εδώ. 
 Αν χρειάζεστε συγκεκριμένες συμβουλές (παραδείγματος χάριν ιατρικές, νομικές, οικονομικές ή διαχείρισης κινδύνου), παρακαλούμε να απευθυνθείτε σε επαγγελματία με κατάλληλη άδεια ή πείρα στον συγκεκριμένο τομέα. Διαβάστε τις σελίδες  ,  ,   για τις ειδικότερες αποποιήσεις. 


URL: https://azb.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%DB%8C%DA%A9%DB%8C%E2%80%8C%D9%BE%D8%AF%DB%8C%D8%A7:%DA%AF%D8%A6%D9%86%D9%84_%DB%8C%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A7%D9%86%D9%84%D8%A7%D9%85%D8%A7

Content: ویکی‌پدیا آنلاین آچیق مضمونلو بیر بیلیکلیک‌دیر؛ یعنی اینسان بیلیک‌لری‌نین عۆمومی قایناغینی اینکیشاف ائتدیرمک اۆچۆن چالیشان فردلرین و قوروپلارین کؤنۆللۆ بیرلیغی‌دیر. لاییحه‌نین قورولوشو، اینترنت باغلانتی‌سی اولان هر کسین مضمونونو دییشدیرمه‌سینه ایمکان وئریر. بورادا یازیلانلار تام، دقیق و یا اعتیبارلی معلومات وئرمک اۆچۆن طلب اولونان تجروبه‌یه صاحیب اینسانلار طرفیندن داواملی اولاراق یوخلانیلمیر.
 بو ویکی‌پدیادا دَیَرلی و دقیق معلومات تاپا بیلمه‌یه‌جه‌یینیز دئمک دئییل؛ بونونلا بیرلیکده،  . هر هانسی بیر معلوماتین مضمونو بو همین قونودا معلوماتی اولمایان بیری طرفیندن دییشدیرمیش اولا بیلر. دیقّت یئتیرین کی، دیگر بیلیکلیک‌لرین و ایستیناد اثرلری‌نین اکثریتینده ده دیسکلئیمر (یالانلاما) وار.


URL: https://bm.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Avertissements_g%C3%A9n%C3%A9raux

Content: 	 
  est une encyclopédie libre, c'est-à-dire une association volontaire d'individus et de groupes qui développent ensemble une source de la connaissance humaine. Sa structure permet à tout individu avec un accès Internet et un navigateur Web de modifier le contenu disponible ici. En conséquence, sachez que rien de ce que vous pouvez trouver ici n'a été nécessairement vérifié par un professionnel compétent dans le domaine en question dans le but de fournir un contenu complet, juste et fiable d'informations sur tous les sujets de Wikipédia.	 
 Ce qui ne veut pas dire que vous ne trouverez aucune information valable et fiable dans Wikipédia, mais que Wikipédia ne peut garantir, d'aucune façon, la validité de l'information disponible ici. Elle peut avoir été récemment modifiée, vandalisée ou altérée par une personne dont l'opinion ne correspond pas à l'état de la connaissance dans le domaine particulier que vous recherchez. Nous travaillons sur des moyens de sélectionner et d'améliorer les meilleures versions de chaque article, toujours sans aucune garantie.


URL: https://et.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikipeedia:%C3%9Cldine_lahti%C3%BCtlus

Content:  Vikipeedia on vabatahtlikul koostööl põhinev veebientsüklopeedia. Igaüks, kellel on internetiühendus, saab lehekülgede sisu muuta. Andmed ei ole tingimata ekspertide kontrollitud. Need võivad olla vananenud, vandaalide laastatud või ümber tehtud kellegi poolt, kelle arvamus ei vasta selle eriala üldtunnustatud teadmistele. See ei tähenda, et Te ei leia siit väärtuslikku ja täpset infot, enamasti leiate. Kuid Vikipeedia ei saa anda garantiid oma sisu õigsusele.
 Aktiivsemad kaastöölised jälgivad   ja   loendit, kuid Vikipeedias ei toimu üldist ja ühtlast retsenseerimist. Kõik kaastöölised ja lugejad võivad parandada vigu ja artiklite arendamise eesmärgil osaleda vabavormilistes aruteludes, kuid neil ei ole selleks kohustust.
 Mitte ükski Vikipeedia kaastöölistest, administraatoritest, sponsoritest ega teistest mis tahes moel Vikipeediaga seotud inimestest ei vastuta võimaliku Vikipeedias leiduva valeinfo või laimu eest ega tagajärgede eest, kui Te seda infot kasutate.
  Kui vajad erialast nõu (näiteks meditsiinilist või õiguslikku), pöördu erialaasjatundja poole. Eraldi leheküljelt saad lugeda  .


URL: https://sco.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclamation

Content: Fae the  
 This is an informational wabsteid that's ocht the   (here-efter "Wikimedia"). The content o this steid is fendit freely, an nae kynd o greement or contract is made atween you an the awners or uisers o this steid, the awners o the servers that this is hoosed on, indiveedual contreebutors tae thir pages, or project admineestrators, sysops or ony ither body adae wi this project subject tae your claims agin thaim direct. Ye are gien a leemitit license tae copy onything fae this steid; it disna mak or implee ony contractual or extracontractual liabeelity on the pairt o Wikimedia or ony o its factors, members, organizers or ither uisers.
 Ony o the treddmerks, service merks, collective merks, design richts, personality richts or sic seemilar richts that's mentiont, uised or edict on this steid is ocht thair respective awners. Unless ithergates statit, Wikimedia steids is naither endorsed bi nor affeeliate wi ony o the hauders o sic richts, nor can Wikimedia grant richts tae uise ithergates protectit maiter. Ye uise sicna incorporeal property at yer ain risk.
 Please merk that the wittins fund here micht owergae the laws o the kintra or stewartry that ye are viewin thir wittins fae. Wikipedia disna forder the owergaun o ony laws, but thir wittins is hained on a server in the State o Floridae in the Unitit States o Americae, an is mainteent in reference tae the protections affuirdit content fenders an readers in that stewartry. The laws in your kintra michna recogneeze a seemilar braid protection o free speak; Wikipedia canna be hauden tae richts for the potential owergaun o sicna laws, gin ye airt tae this domain or reuise ony o the wittins inby.


URL: https://az.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikipediya:M%C9%99suliyy%C9%99td%C9%99n_imtina

Content: Vikipediya onlayn açıq məzmunlu bir ensiklopediyadır; yəni insan biliklərinin ümumi mənbəyini inkişaf etdirmək üçün çalışan fərdlərin və qrupların könüllü birliyidir. Layihənin quruluşu, İnternet bağlantısı olan hər kəsin məzmununu dəyişdirməsinə imkan verir. Burada yazılanlar tam, dəqiq və ya etibarlı məlumat vermək üçün tələb olunan təcrübəyə sahib insanlar tərəfindən mütəmadi olaraq yoxlanılmır.
 Bu Vikipediyada dəyərli və dəqiq məlumat tapa bilməyəcəyiniz demək deyil; Bununla birlikdə,  . Hər hansı bir məqalənin məzmunu bu həmin mövzuda məlumatı olmayan biri tərəfindən dəyişdirilmiş ola bilər. Diqqət yetirin ki, digər ensiklopediyaların və istinad əsərlərinin əksəriyyətində də diskleymer var.
 Aktiv redaktor icmamız yeni və dəyişən məzmunu izləmək üçün   və   kimi vasitələrdən istifadə edir. Bununla birlikdə, Vikipediya məqalələri mütəmadi olaraq yoxlanılmır; oxucular səhvləri düzəldə bilərlər, bunu etmək üçün qanuni bir vəzifələri yoxdur və buna görə burada oxunan bütün məlumatlar hər hansı bir məqsəd üçün uyğunluq zəmanəti və ya hər hansı bir şəkildə istifadə edilmir.
  prosessindən keçən məqalələr yoxlanılsada, siz onu oxumamışdan 1 saniyə əvvəl kimsə uyğun olmayan redaktələr edə bilər.
 
 Zəhmət olmasa burada verilən məlumatların açıq şəkildə verildiyini və sizinlə bu saytın sahibləri və ya istifadəçiləri, yerləşdiyi serverlərin sahibləri, Vikipediya istifadəçiləri, hər hansı bir layihə idarəçisi və ya hər hansı bir şəkildə bu layihə ilə əlaqəli olan hər kəs və ya birbaşa onlara qarşı iddialarınıza tabe olan digər layihələr arasında hər hansı bir razılaşma və ya müqavilə bağlanmadığını başa düşdüyünüzdən əmin olun. Bu saytdan bir şey götürmək üçün sizə məhdud bir lisenziya verilir; bu Vikipediya üzvlərində, təşkilatçılarında və ya digər istifadəçilərində hər hansı birində müqavilə və ya müqavilədənkənar məsuliyyət yaratmır və ya nəzərdə tutmur.
 
 Vikipediya ensiklopediyasının məqalələrində bəhs edilən, istifadə edilən və ya istinad edilən ticarət nişanları, xidmət markaları, kollektiv markalar, dizayn hüquqları və ya oxşar hüquqlardan hər hansı biri müvafiq sahiblərinə məxsusdur. Buradakı istifadəsi, bunları bu Vikipediya məqalələrinin orijinal müəllifləri tərəfindən CC-BY-SA və GFDL lisenziyalaşdırma sxemləri çərçivəsində nəzərdə tutulmuş eyni və ya oxşar məlumat istifadəsi xaricində hər hansı bir məqsəd üçün istifadə edə biləcəyinizi nəzərdə tutmur. Başqa bir hal göstərilmədiyi təqdirdə, Vikipediya və Vikimedia saytları bu cür hüquq sahibləri tərəfindən təsdiqlənmir və ya onlarla əlaqəli deyildir və bu şəkildə Vikipediya, başqa cür qorunan materiallardan istifadə etmək hüququ verə bilməz. Hər hansı bir və ya buna bənzər qeyri-rəsmi əmlakdan istifadə etməyiniz sizin məsuliyyətinizdədir.
 Vikipediyada son zamanlarda yaşayan və ya vəfat etmiş şəxsiyyəti təsvir edə biləcək material var. Yaşayan və ya yaxınlarda vəfat etmiş şəxslərin şəkillərinin istifadəsi, bəzi yurisdiksiyalarda, müəllif hüquqları statusundan asılı olmayaraq şəxsiyyət hüquqları ilə əlaqəli qanunlarla məhdudlaşdırılır. Bu tip məzmundan istifadə etməzdən əvvəl, zəhmət olmasa, istifadə olunma şərtlərinizdə tətbiq olunan qanunlara əsasən istifadə etmək hüququnuzun olduğundan əmin olun.  
 Vikipediyada yazılan məlumatların yayımlanması, bu məlumatları gördüyünüz ölkənin və ya yurisdiksiyanın qanunlarına zidd ola bilər. Vikipediyanın verilənlər bazası Amerika Birləşmiş Ştatlarındakı serverlərdə saxlanılır və yerli və federal qanunlara uyğun olaraq qorunur. Ölkənizdəki və ya yurisdiksiyanızdakı qanunlar eyni distribusiyanı qorumaya və ya icazə verməyə bilər. Vikipediya, hər hansı bir qanun pozuntusunu təşviq etmir və buradakı məlumatları istifadə etməyiniz, çoxaltmanız və ya yenidən yayımlamanız halında bu qanunların pozulmasına görə məsuliyyət daşımır.
 Məsləhətə ehtiyacınız varsa (məsələn, tibbi, hüquqi və ya maliyyə), zəhmət olmasa bu sahədə peşəkar bir mütəxəssisə müraciət edin.
 


URL: https://gn.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikipet%C3%A3:Arigua_rehegua

Content:  ha'e peteĩ ñe'ẽryrupavẽ   hekosãsóva, péva he'ise, peteĩ tapicha ñemboaty ojapo joajuhápe peteĩ tenda opaite tembikuaa yvypóra pegua. Vikipetã   oheja opa tekove orekóva   ikatu ojehaijey ore kuatiarogue ha jehai. Upévare, eikuaamíkena  .
 Hákatu, upe ndahe'iséi nderehechamo'ãi marandu porã Vikipetãme. Upevére,  . Jehaipy oimeraẽ kuatiaroguépe ikatu ojehaijeykuri,   térã oñemoambuekuri peteĩ tapicháre ha imarandu kuéra ikatu ndaha'éi porã.
 Estamos trabajando sobre la forma de seleccionar y resaltar versiones fiables de los artículos. Nuestra activa comunidad de editores utiliza diversas herramientas sobre los   y las   para vigilar las modificaciones y nuevos contenidos. Sin embargo, Wikipedia no es uniformemente revisada por pares; si bien los lectores pueden corregir errores o eliminar las sugerencias erróneas en una casual  , ellos no tienen obligación legal de hacerlo y, por ende, toda la información que se incluya se hace sin ningún tipo de garantía implícita de aptitud para cualquier fin o uso alguno. Incluso los artículos que han sido aprobados mediante revisiones por pares informales o tras un proceso de votación de   pueden ser más tarde modificados inapropiadamente, justo antes de que usted los lea.
 
 La información contenida en Wikipedia se suministra libremente, sin crear ningún tipo de acuerdo o contrato entre usted y los propietarios o usuarios de este sitio, los propietarios de los servidores en los que este sitio web está alojado, los contribuyentes individuales a Wikipedia, los administradores de cualquier proyecto, los operadores del sistema, ni persona alguna relacionada con este proyecto u otros proyectos hermanos. Se le concede a usted una licencia limitada para copiar cualquier material de este sitio; esa licencia no crea en forma alguna responsabilidad contractual o extracontractual de parte de Wikipedia ni ninguno de sus agentes, miembros, organizadores u otros usuarios.  .
 Este   que cubra el uso o las modificaciones que usted haga respecto de la información, más allá de los términos del esquema de licenciamiento mencionado en el párrafo anterior; nadie en Wikipedia además de usted puede ser considerado responsable de los cambios, alteraciones, modificaciones o eliminaciones de cualquier información que usted mismo realice en Wikipedia o cualquiera de sus proyectos asociados.
 Cualesquiera marcas registradas, marcas de servicio, marcas colectivas, derechos de diseño u otros derechos de propiedad industrial que se mencionan, usan o citan en los artículos o páginas de Wikipedia son propiedad de los respectivos titulares. Su utilización aquí no implica que usted pueda usarlos para otro propósito distinto del uso informativo idéntico o similar al contemplado por los autores originales de los artículos en Wikipedia bajo los términos del  . 
Salvo indicación en contrario, los sitios web de Wikipedia y Wikimedia no están relacionados con los titulares de los citados derechos, y por lo tanto Wikipedia no puede otorgar derecho alguno para el uso de materiales protegidos. El uso que usted haga de esa propiedad inmaterial o similares es exclusivamente bajo su propio riesgo.
 La publicación de la información contenida en Wikipedia podría contravenir las leyes del país o jurisdicción desde donde se accede a la información. La base de datos de Wikipedia está alojada en un servidor situado en el estado de Florida, en los Estados Unidos de América, y es mantenida en referencia a las protecciones garantizadas por las leyes locales y federales de ese país. Las leyes en su país o jurisdicción podrían no proteger o permitir las mismas clases de expresión o distribución. Wikipedia no promueve la violación de ninguna ley; y no puede ser responsabilizada por ninguna violación de tales leyes, en caso de que enlace a este sitio o use, reproduzca o republique la información aquí contenida.
 Salvo indicación de lo contrario, las conclusiones, las interpretaciones y las opiniones expresadas en los artículos de Wikipedia corresponden a sus respectivos autores, y no representan necesariamente el punto de vista de Wikipedia. 
La información suministrada  
 Si necesita asesoramiento específico (por ejemplo, médico, legal, financiero, o de gestión de riesgos), por favor solicite un profesional que cuente con licencia o con conocimientos en la materia.
 
 Por el carácter general,  . Si esto puede suponer un problema, por favor absténgase de su uso. Si es menor de edad, consulte a sus progenitores o tutores legales antes de hacer uso de Wikipedia.


URL: https://nv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikiib%C3%AD%C3%ADdiiya:General_disclaimer

Content: We are working on ways to select and highlight reliable versions of articles.  Our active community of editors uses tools such as the Special:Recentchanges and Special:Newpages feeds to monitor new and changing content.  However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual peer review, they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever.  Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the Creative Commons Attribution-Sharealike 3.0 Unported License (CC-BY-SA) and the GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or deceased recently.  The use of images of living or recently deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to personality rights, independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.   
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of Florida in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://sa.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AA%E0%A5%80%E0%A4%A1%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%BE:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://bm.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Avertissements_g%C3%A9n%C3%A9raux

Content: 	 
  est une encyclopédie libre, c'est-à-dire une association volontaire d'individus et de groupes qui développent ensemble une source de la connaissance humaine. Sa structure permet à tout individu avec un accès Internet et un navigateur Web de modifier le contenu disponible ici. En conséquence, sachez que rien de ce que vous pouvez trouver ici n'a été nécessairement vérifié par un professionnel compétent dans le domaine en question dans le but de fournir un contenu complet, juste et fiable d'informations sur tous les sujets de Wikipédia.	 
 Ce qui ne veut pas dire que vous ne trouverez aucune information valable et fiable dans Wikipédia, mais que Wikipédia ne peut garantir, d'aucune façon, la validité de l'information disponible ici. Elle peut avoir été récemment modifiée, vandalisée ou altérée par une personne dont l'opinion ne correspond pas à l'état de la connaissance dans le domaine particulier que vous recherchez. Nous travaillons sur des moyens de sélectionner et d'améliorer les meilleures versions de chaque article, toujours sans aucune garantie.


URL: https://sq.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Shfaj%C3%ABsimet_e_p%C3%ABrgjithshme

Content: :
 
 W  N  J  G  S   
  ështe një enciklopedi me përmbajtje të hapur, bashkëpunuese, në linjë, që nënkupton një shoqëri njerëzish e grupesh që janë duke zhvilluar një burim të përbashkët të dijes njerëzore. Ndërtimi i projektit lejon këdo me një lidhje interneti dhe World Wide Web(Rrjet Mbarë Botëror) shfletues (browser) të ndryshojë përmbajtjen e tij. Mbani parasysh se të dhënat e gjetura këtu jo domosdoshmërisht janë riparë nga persona me aftësitë e duhura për t`ju pajisur me të dhëna të plota, të sakta e të besueshme.
 Kjo nuk do të thotë se ju nuk do të gjeni të dhëna të vlefshme e të sakta Wikipedia: në më të shumtën e rasteve ju do ti gjeni. Megjithëatë,  . Përmbajtja e çdo artikulli (shkrimi) mund të jetë ndryshuar apo dëmtuar së fundmi nga persona mendimi i të cilëve nuk përkon me gjendjen e dijeve në fushat përkatëse.
 Ne punojmë për gjetjen e mënyrave për të zgjedhur dhe nxjerrë në pah versione të besueshme artikujsh. Bashkësia jonë aktive e përgatitësve (botuesve) përdor mjete të tilla si    dhe    që ndihmojnë në mbikëqyrjen e ndryshimeve të përmbajtjeve. Megjithatë,   nuk bën rishikime hulumtuese të përhershme; për sa kohë lexuesit mund të ndreqin gabimet apo merren me këtë çështje  , ata s`kanë të drejtë ligjore ta bëjnë këtë dhe kështu të gjitha të dhënat e lexuara nuk japin siguri për përdorim të dobishëm për ndonjë qëllim të caktuar apo për çfarëdo përdorimi tjetër. Madje artikujt që janë hulumtuar nga rishikime shqyrtuese e përshtatëse apo ecuritë e një   mundet që më vonë te jenë përpunuar me mangësi, pikërisht përpara se ju t`i shihni ata.
 Ju lutemi, sigurohuni të kuptoni që informacioni i afruar këtu është falas dhe që s`ka asnjë lloj ujdie (pajtese) apo kontrate që është krijuar mes jush dhe pronarëve apo përdoruesve të kësaj faqeje, pronarëve shërbyes mbi të cilët strehohet, ndihmuesve individualë të  -s, ndonjë projekt drejtuesish, administratorësh, apo cilitdo tjetër që është   me këtë projekt apo me projekte motra, u përgjigjen ankesave tuaja direkte kundër tyre. Juve u jepet një leje e kufizuar të kopjoni çdo gjë nga kjo faqe; nuk krijon apo sajon ndonjë përgjegjësi kontrate ose jashtëkontrate nga ana e  s, apo ndonjë nga agjentët, anëtarët, organizuesit ose përdorues të tjerë.
  lidhur me përdorimin apo përpilimin tuaj të këtij informacioni përtej   (GFDL); as është ndonjë në   përgjegjës nëse ndokush ndryshon, përpunon, përpilon apo heq ndonjë informacion që ju mund të vendosni në   ose ndonjë prej projekteve të shoqëruara me të.
 Seicila prej shenjave tregëtare, shenjat e shërbimit, shenjat e bashkësive, të drejtat e vizatimeve, të drejtat vetjake apo të drejta të ngjashme që janë përmendur, përdoruar apo cituar në artikujt e enciklopedisë së Wikipedias janë pronë e pronarëve të tyre përkatës. Përdorimi i tyre nuk nënkupton që ju mund t´i përdorni ato për ndonjë qëllim tjetër seç per te njëjtin ose përdorimin e ngjashëm informues, siç është paramenduar nga autorët origjinalë të atyre artikujve Wikipedianë, nën lejen e projektit GFDL. Ose e thënë ndryshe Wikipedia dhe faqet e saj nuk janë as të nënshkruara (vërtetësuara) as të anëtarësuara me ndonjë prej mbajtësve të ndonjë të drejte të tillë, dhe si e tillë   nuk mund t´ju sigurojë ndonjë të drejtë të përdorni ndonjë apo lëndë të mbrojtur.  
 Botimi i të dhënave të gjetura në   mund të jetë në kundravajtje me ligjet e vendit apo juridiksionit nga ku ju jeni duke parë këto të dhëna. Baza e të dhënave të Wikipedias ruhet në një shërbyes në Shtetin e   në   dhe mbahet duke u bazuar në mbrojtjen e dhënë nga ligjet federale vendase. Ligjet e vendit apo juridiksionit tuaj mund të mos mbrojnë apo lejojnë të njëjtat lloje të shprehjes apo shpërndarjes.   nuk nxit shkeljen e ndonjë ligji; dhe nuk mund të jetë përgjegjëse për shkelje të ndonjë ligji, nëse ju lidheni me këtë domen (zotërim) apo përdorni, riprodhoni, ose ribotoni të dhënat(njohuritë) e përmbajtura këtu.
 Nëse ju keni nevojë për këshilla të veçanta (p.sh., mbi mjekësinë, ligjin, apo menaxhimin e riskut) ju lutemi drejtojuni një profesionisti të lejuar ose të mirënjoftuar me atë fushë. Shiko  ,  , dhe   për shfajësime të veçanta.
 Ju faleminderit që morët kohën për të lexuar këtë faqe, dhe ju lutemi shijoni përdorimin tuaj të Wikipedias.
 Meqë enciklopedi të tjera, jo si Wikipedia, vëzhgohen rishqyrtueshëm profesionalisht, ato ende nuk garantojnë përmbajtjen e tyre.
 Shiko edhe:  .


URL: https://azb.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%DB%8C%DA%A9%DB%8C%E2%80%8C%D9%BE%D8%AF%DB%8C%D8%A7:%DA%AF%D8%A6%D9%86%D9%84_%DB%8C%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A7%D9%86%D9%84%D8%A7%D9%85%D8%A7

Content: ویکی‌پدیا آنلاین آچیق مضمونلو بیر بیلیکلیک‌دیر؛ یعنی اینسان بیلیک‌لری‌نین عۆمومی قایناغینی اینکیشاف ائتدیرمک اۆچۆن چالیشان فردلرین و قوروپلارین کؤنۆللۆ بیرلیغی‌دیر. لاییحه‌نین قورولوشو، اینترنت باغلانتی‌سی اولان هر کسین مضمونونو دییشدیرمه‌سینه ایمکان وئریر. بورادا یازیلانلار تام، دقیق و یا اعتیبارلی معلومات وئرمک اۆچۆن طلب اولونان تجروبه‌یه صاحیب اینسانلار طرفیندن داواملی اولاراق یوخلانیلمیر.
 بو ویکی‌پدیادا دَیَرلی و دقیق معلومات تاپا بیلمه‌یه‌جه‌یینیز دئمک دئییل؛ بونونلا بیرلیکده،  . هر هانسی بیر معلوماتین مضمونو بو همین قونودا معلوماتی اولمایان بیری طرفیندن دییشدیرمیش اولا بیلر. دیقّت یئتیرین کی، دیگر بیلیکلیک‌لرین و ایستیناد اثرلری‌نین اکثریتینده ده دیسکلئیمر (یالانلاما) وار.


URL: https://gn.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikipet%C3%A3:Arigua_rehegua

Content:  ha'e peteĩ ñe'ẽryrupavẽ   hekosãsóva, péva he'ise, peteĩ tapicha ñemboaty ojapo joajuhápe peteĩ tenda opaite tembikuaa yvypóra pegua. Vikipetã   oheja opa tekove orekóva   ikatu ojehaijey ore kuatiarogue ha jehai. Upévare, eikuaamíkena  .
 Hákatu, upe ndahe'iséi nderehechamo'ãi marandu porã Vikipetãme. Upevére,  . Jehaipy oimeraẽ kuatiaroguépe ikatu ojehaijeykuri,   térã oñemoambuekuri peteĩ tapicháre ha imarandu kuéra ikatu ndaha'éi porã.
 Estamos trabajando sobre la forma de seleccionar y resaltar versiones fiables de los artículos. Nuestra activa comunidad de editores utiliza diversas herramientas sobre los   y las   para vigilar las modificaciones y nuevos contenidos. Sin embargo, Wikipedia no es uniformemente revisada por pares; si bien los lectores pueden corregir errores o eliminar las sugerencias erróneas en una casual  , ellos no tienen obligación legal de hacerlo y, por ende, toda la información que se incluya se hace sin ningún tipo de garantía implícita de aptitud para cualquier fin o uso alguno. Incluso los artículos que han sido aprobados mediante revisiones por pares informales o tras un proceso de votación de   pueden ser más tarde modificados inapropiadamente, justo antes de que usted los lea.
 
 La información contenida en Wikipedia se suministra libremente, sin crear ningún tipo de acuerdo o contrato entre usted y los propietarios o usuarios de este sitio, los propietarios de los servidores en los que este sitio web está alojado, los contribuyentes individuales a Wikipedia, los administradores de cualquier proyecto, los operadores del sistema, ni persona alguna relacionada con este proyecto u otros proyectos hermanos. Se le concede a usted una licencia limitada para copiar cualquier material de este sitio; esa licencia no crea en forma alguna responsabilidad contractual o extracontractual de parte de Wikipedia ni ninguno de sus agentes, miembros, organizadores u otros usuarios.  .
 Este   que cubra el uso o las modificaciones que usted haga respecto de la información, más allá de los términos del esquema de licenciamiento mencionado en el párrafo anterior; nadie en Wikipedia además de usted puede ser considerado responsable de los cambios, alteraciones, modificaciones o eliminaciones de cualquier información que usted mismo realice en Wikipedia o cualquiera de sus proyectos asociados.
 Cualesquiera marcas registradas, marcas de servicio, marcas colectivas, derechos de diseño u otros derechos de propiedad industrial que se mencionan, usan o citan en los artículos o páginas de Wikipedia son propiedad de los respectivos titulares. Su utilización aquí no implica que usted pueda usarlos para otro propósito distinto del uso informativo idéntico o similar al contemplado por los autores originales de los artículos en Wikipedia bajo los términos del  . 
Salvo indicación en contrario, los sitios web de Wikipedia y Wikimedia no están relacionados con los titulares de los citados derechos, y por lo tanto Wikipedia no puede otorgar derecho alguno para el uso de materiales protegidos. El uso que usted haga de esa propiedad inmaterial o similares es exclusivamente bajo su propio riesgo.
 La publicación de la información contenida en Wikipedia podría contravenir las leyes del país o jurisdicción desde donde se accede a la información. La base de datos de Wikipedia está alojada en un servidor situado en el estado de Florida, en los Estados Unidos de América, y es mantenida en referencia a las protecciones garantizadas por las leyes locales y federales de ese país. Las leyes en su país o jurisdicción podrían no proteger o permitir las mismas clases de expresión o distribución. Wikipedia no promueve la violación de ninguna ley; y no puede ser responsabilizada por ninguna violación de tales leyes, en caso de que enlace a este sitio o use, reproduzca o republique la información aquí contenida.
 Salvo indicación de lo contrario, las conclusiones, las interpretaciones y las opiniones expresadas en los artículos de Wikipedia corresponden a sus respectivos autores, y no representan necesariamente el punto de vista de Wikipedia. 
La información suministrada  
 Si necesita asesoramiento específico (por ejemplo, médico, legal, financiero, o de gestión de riesgos), por favor solicite un profesional que cuente con licencia o con conocimientos en la materia.
 
 Por el carácter general,  . Si esto puede suponer un problema, por favor absténgase de su uso. Si es menor de edad, consulte a sus progenitores o tutores legales antes de hacer uso de Wikipedia.


URL: https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Impressum

Content: „Wikipedia – Die freie Enzyklopädie“ ist im Internet unter   zu finden, die deutschsprachige Ausgabe unter  .
 Anbieterin dieser Website ist die  , eingetragen beim   unter der Nummer N03000005323. Die Wikimedia Foundation ist eine Stiftung nach dem Recht des US-Bundesstaates  . Die verantwortliche Ansprechperson – gleichzeitig   im Sinne des   – ist Stephen LaPorte.
 
 Bei Fragen und Interviewwünschen können Sie sich auf informeller Basis auch gerne an die aktiven deutschsprachigen Ansprechpartner wenden, siehe   und  .
 Wikipedia ist eine freie  . Nähere Informationen zum Projekt erfahren Sie auf der Seite   sowie im  . Die Bezeichnung „frei“ bedeutet dabei, dass Wikipedia-Inhalte   sind. Demnach ist die private oder kommerzielle Verwendung und Weitergabe der in Wikipedia enthaltenen Texte – sofern die Bestimmungen der   oder der   eingehalten werden – gestattet. Für hochgeladene Mediendateien, insbesondere Bilder, können unterschiedliche freie Lizenzen gelten, die auf den Dateibeschreibungsseiten angegeben sind. Diese sind gesondert zu beachten, siehe auch  .
 Bitte beachten Sie die ausführlichen   der Wikimedia Foundation.
 Beachten Sie bitte die verbindliche    und die weiteren Hinweise zum Datenschutz der Wikimedia Foundation.
 Die Wikipedia-Autoren sind aufgerufen, alle Inhalte, die sie zu dieser Website beisteuern, nach   zu erstellen. Die Inhalte der Wikipedia entstehen gemeinschaftlich, offen und ohne direkte redaktionelle Begleitung und Kontrolle. Praktisch jeder Inhalt kann jederzeit durch jedermann verändert werden. Insbesondere können Werke, die unter dem Verdacht stehen, Urheber-, Verwertungs-, Persönlichkeits- oder sonstige Rechte zu verletzen, unmittelbar ohne Rücksprache jederzeit korrigiert bzw. gelöscht werden. Jeder   ist für die von ihm erstellten Beiträge selbst in vollem Umfang verantwortlich. Einen Ausschluss einzelner Benutzer behält sich die Anbieterin ausdrücklich vor.
 Auf Grund der offenen Struktur der Wikipedia und der häufigen Änderungen ihrer Inhalte ist es möglich, dass Sie hier auf unrichtige, unvollständige, veraltete, widersprüchliche, in falschem Zusammenhang stehende oder verkürzte Angaben treffen. Die enzyklopädischen Artikel der Wikipedia dienen des Weiteren der allgemeinen Bildung und Weiterbildung, nicht der Beratung im Falle individueller Anliegen. Es kann deshalb keine Verantwortung für Schäden übernommen werden, die durch das Vertrauen auf die Inhalte dieser Website oder deren Gebrauch entstehen. Bitte beachten Sie auch die gesonderten   und  .
 Die als   oder „Sysop“ bezeichneten Benutzer der Wikipedia sowie die Benutzer mit sonstigen erweiterten Rechten sind keine offiziellen Vertreter der Website-Anbieterin, sondern lediglich Benutzer, denen weitergehende technische Möglichkeiten eingeräumt wurden. Diese Personen helfen in der Regel gern und schnell bei eventuellen Fragen oder Beanstandungen, sind jedoch nicht persönlich für diese Website – insbesondere nicht im Hinblick auf Richtigkeit, Aktualität und Vollständigkeit der zur Verfügung gestellten Informationen – verantwortlich.
 Die Website-Anbieterin weist auf allen Eingabeseiten darauf hin, kein Material zu verwenden, das   Dritter unterliegt. Bei der sehr großen Zahl der in deutscher Sprache vorliegenden elektronischen und vor allem schriftlichen Publikationen kann aber nicht ausgeschlossen werden, dass von Benutzern dennoch unbefugt Material eingebracht wird, das bestehende Schutzrechte verletzt und das nicht sofort als solches erkannt wird.
 Wenn der Anbieterin eine entsprechende Urheberrechtsverletzung angezeigt wird, wird das betreffende Material umgehend entfernt. Offizieller Ansprechpartner für solche Fälle sind die nach US-amerikanischem Recht bestimmten   von Wikimedia.
 Alternativ können Sie sich auf informeller Basis auch an eine Gruppe von aktiven deutschsprachigen Benutzern wenden, die Sie unter   erreichen. Die E-Mail sollte den betroffenen Inhalt in Wikipedia genau bezeichnen (bitte immer URL und ggf. konkreten Abschnitt angeben) sowie die Publikation oder Website nennen, aus der das Material unberechtigt übernommen wurde.
 


URL: https://qu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://as.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A7%B1%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%95%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%AA%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%A1%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%AF%E0%A6%BC%E0%A6%BE:%E0%A6%B8%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%A7%E0%A6%BE%E0%A7%B0%E0%A6%A3_%E0%A6%A6%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%AF%E0%A6%BC%E0%A6%B2%E0%A7%81%E0%A6%AA%E0%A7%8D%E0%A6%A4%E0%A6%BF

Content: ৱিকিপিডিয়া এখন অনলাইন মুক্ত-সমল সহযোগিতামূলক বিশ্বকোষ। অৰ্থাত্‍ পৃথিৱীৰ বিভিন্ন প্ৰান্তৰ স্বেচ্ছাসেৱকসকলে মিলিজুলি জ্ঞানৰ ভঁৰাল হিছাপে ইয়াক গঢ়ি তুলিছে। প্ৰকল্পটোৰ গঠনে ইণ্টাৰনেটৰ সুবিধা থকা যিকোনো ব্যক্তিক ইয়াৰ সমল সলনি কৰিবলৈ সুযোগ দিয়ে। মন কৰক যে ইয়াত পোৱা কথাবিলাক বিশেষজ্ঞ ব্যক্তিৰদ্বাৰা পৰীক্ষিত নহ'বও পাৰে, গতিকে তথ্যসমূহ ১০০%ই শুদ্ধ বা সম্পূৰ্ণ বুলি ধৰি লোৱাটো অমূলক।
 তাৰ অৰ্থ এইটো নহয় যে আপুনি ৱিকিপিডিয়াত মূল্যবান আৰু শুদ্ধ তথ্য নাপাবই। তথাপি    কোনোটো প্ৰবন্ধৰ সমল সেই বিষয়বস্তু সম্পৰ্কে জ্ঞান নথকা  বা সেই তথ্যৰ লগত সন্মত নোহোৱা ব্যক্তি এজনে আহি সলাই দিব পাৰে বা খেলিমেলিৰ সৃষ্টি কৰিব পাৰে। উল্লেখযোগ্য যে অন্যান্য প্ৰায় সকলো বিশ্বকোষ আৰু প্ৰসংগ-কৰ্মৰ একেধৰণৰ   আছে।
 প্ৰবন্ধবোৰৰ বিশ্বাসযোগ্য সংস্কৰণ চিনাক্ত কৰিবৰ বাবে আমি চেষ্টা কৰি আছোঁ। আমাৰ সক্ৰিয় সম্পাদকসকলে   আৰু   আদি সঁজুলিৰ জৰিয়তে নতুন আৰু পৰিৱৰ্তিত সমলৰ ওপৰত চকু ৰাখে। কিন্তু ৱিকিপিডিয়াত নিয়মিত পুনৰ্নিৰীক্ষণ কৰা নহয়। যদিও পাঠকসকলে ভুল-ত্ৰুটি শুধৰাব পাৰে আৰু সাধাৰণ   কৰিব পাৰে, তেওঁলোকৰ তেনে কোনো আইনী দায়িত্ব নাই আৰু গতিকে ইয়াত পোৱা সকলো তথ্যৰ যিকোনো ঠাইত ব্যৱহাৰৰ বাবে মানৰ নিশ্চয়তা নাই। আনকি অনানুষ্ঠানিকভাৱে পুনৰ্নিৰীক্ষণ কৰা বা  ও আপুনি চোৱাৰ আগে আগে কাৰোবাৰদ্বাৰা বেয়াকৈ সম্পাদিত হ'ব পাৰে।
 
 অনুগ্ৰহ কৰি নিশ্চিত হৈ লওক যে ইয়ালৈ বৰঙণি আগবঢ়োৱা তথ্যসমূহ বিনামূলীয়াকৈ দিয়া হৈছে; আৰু আপোনাৰ লগত এই চাইটৰ গৰাকী, চাইটৰ ব্যৱহাৰকাৰী, চাইটৰ চাৰ্ভাৰৰ গৰাকী, ৱিকিপিডিয়াৰ গাইগুটীয়া অৱদানকাৰী, প্ৰশাসক বা এই প্ৰকল্পৰ সৈতে যিকোনোভাৱে জড়িত কোনো ব্যক্তিৰে চুক্তি স্বাক্ষৰিত হোৱা নাই। এওঁলোক কোনোৱেই আপোনাৰ দাবীৰ লগত সম্পৰ্কিত নহয়। আপোনাক এই চাইটৰ পৰা যিকোনো কথা কপী কৰাৰ স্বাধীনতা দিয়া হৈছে; ইয়াৰ দ্বাৰা ৱিকিপিডিয়াৰ কোনো সদস্য, এজেণ্ট, সংগঠক বা ব্যৱহাৰকাৰীৰ লগত কোনো চুক্তিভিত্তিক বা অচুক্তিভিত্তিক দায়বদ্ধতাৰ সৃষ্টি কৰা হোৱা নাই।
  (CC-BY-SA) আৰু   (GFDL)ৰ আওতাৰ বাহিৰত এই তথ্যসমূহৰ ব্যৱহাৰ আৰু পৰিৱৰ্তনৰ বাবে  । আপুনি ৱিকিপিডিয়া বা ইয়াৰ সহযোগী প্ৰকল্পত লিখা কোনো তথ্য কোনোবাই সলালে, সম্পাদনা কৰিলে, পৰিৱৰ্তন কৰিলে বা আঁতৰালে ৱিকিপিডিয়াৰ কোনো ব্যক্তি দায়ী নহ'ব।
 ৱিকিপিডিয়াৰ প্ৰবন্ধৰ প্ৰদৰ্শিত, উল্লেখিত বা উদ্ধৃত কোনো ট্ৰেড্‌মাৰ্ক, চাৰ্ভিছ মাৰ্ক, কালেক্‌টিভ মাৰ্ক, ডিজাইন স্বত্ব বা একেধৰণৰ স্বত্ব সেইবোৰৰ নিজ নিজ স্বত্বাধিকাৰীৰ সম্পত্তি। সেইবোৰ ইয়াত ব্যৱহাৰ হোৱাৰ অৰ্থ এই নহয় যে আপুনি CC-BY-SA আৰু GFDL অনুজ্ঞাপত্ৰৰ আওতাৰ বাহিৰত সেইবোৰৰ অন্য ব্যৱহাৰ কৰিব পাৰিব। উল্লেখ নকৰালৈকে ৱিকিপিডিয়া বা ৱিকিমিডিয়া চাইটসমূহ তেনে স্বত্বাধিকাৰীৰ লগত যুক্ত নহয় আৰু গতিকে ৱিকিপিডিয়াই কোনো সংৰক্ষিত বিষয়ৰ ব্যৱহাৰৰ অনুমতি দিব নোৱাৰে। এনেধৰণৰ ব্যৱসায়িক সম্পত্তিৰ ব্যৱহাৰৰ বাবে আপুনি নিজে দায়বদ্ধ।
 ৱিকিপিডিয়াত থকা কোনো বিষয়ে এজন চিনাকী জীৱিত বা সদ্য মৃত ব্যক্তিক চিত্ৰিত কৰিব পাৰে। কপিৰাইট মুক্ত নহ'লে জীৱিত বা সদ্য মৃত ব্যক্তিৰ ছবিৰ ব্যৱহাৰ কোনো কোনো বিচাৰব্যৱস্থাত  ৰ দ্বাৰা সীমাবদ্ধ। এনে সমল ব্যৱহাৰ কৰাৰ আগতে নিশ্চিত হওক যে আপুনি ব্যৱহাৰ কৰিব খোজা ধৰণে তাক ব্যৱহাৰ কৰাৰ আইনগত অধিকাৰ আপোনাৰ আছে।  
 ৱিকিপিডিয়াৰ তথ্যসমূহৰ প্ৰকাশ আপুনি যি দেশৰ পৰা এই তথ্যসমূহ প্ৰত্যক্ষ কৰিছে সেই দেশৰ বিচাৰব্যৱস্থা অনুসৰি আইন উলঙ্ঘন হ'ব পাৰে। ৱিকিপিডিয়াৰ তথ্যসমূহ  ৰ   ৰাজ্যত থকা এটা চাৰ্ভাৰত সংৰক্ষণ কৰা হৈছে, আৰু ইয়াক তাৰ আঞ্চলিক আৰু ফেডাৰেল আইনৰ অধীনত চোৱাচিতা কৰা হয়। আপোনাৰ দেশৰ আইনৰ হয়তো সেই আইনৰ লগত সাদৃশ্য নাথাকিব পাৰে। ৱিকিপিডিয়াই কোনো আইন উলঙ্ঘনক উৎসাহিত নকৰে। আপুনি এই ডমেইনৰ বিভিন্ন লিংকত থকা কোনো তথ্য ব্যৱহাৰ, পুনৰ্ব্যৱহাৰ বা পুনৰ্প্ৰকাশ কৰিলে ৱিকিপিডিয়াই কোনো আইন ভঙ্গৰ দায়িত্ব গ্ৰহণ নকৰে।
 যদি আপোনাক কোনো সুনিৰ্দিষ্ট পৰামৰ্শৰ প্ৰয়োজন (যেনে- চিকিৎসা সম্পৰ্কীয়, আইনী, অৰ্থনৈতিক, বা বিপদাশঙ্কা ব্যৱস্থাপনা), অনুগ্ৰহ কৰি এজন বিশেষজ্ঞ বা তেনে ক্ষেত্ৰত অনুজ্ঞাপত্ৰ থকা ব্যক্তিৰ শৰণাপন্ন হওক।


URL: https://as.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A7%B1%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%95%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%AA%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%A1%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%AF%E0%A6%BC%E0%A6%BE:%E0%A6%B8%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%A7%E0%A6%BE%E0%A7%B0%E0%A6%A3_%E0%A6%A6%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%AF%E0%A6%BC%E0%A6%B2%E0%A7%81%E0%A6%AA%E0%A7%8D%E0%A6%A4%E0%A6%BF

Content: ৱিকিপিডিয়া এখন অনলাইন মুক্ত-সমল সহযোগিতামূলক বিশ্বকোষ। অৰ্থাত্‍ পৃথিৱীৰ বিভিন্ন প্ৰান্তৰ স্বেচ্ছাসেৱকসকলে মিলিজুলি জ্ঞানৰ ভঁৰাল হিছাপে ইয়াক গঢ়ি তুলিছে। প্ৰকল্পটোৰ গঠনে ইণ্টাৰনেটৰ সুবিধা থকা যিকোনো ব্যক্তিক ইয়াৰ সমল সলনি কৰিবলৈ সুযোগ দিয়ে। মন কৰক যে ইয়াত পোৱা কথাবিলাক বিশেষজ্ঞ ব্যক্তিৰদ্বাৰা পৰীক্ষিত নহ'বও পাৰে, গতিকে তথ্যসমূহ ১০০%ই শুদ্ধ বা সম্পূৰ্ণ বুলি ধৰি লোৱাটো অমূলক।
 তাৰ অৰ্থ এইটো নহয় যে আপুনি ৱিকিপিডিয়াত মূল্যবান আৰু শুদ্ধ তথ্য নাপাবই। তথাপি    কোনোটো প্ৰবন্ধৰ সমল সেই বিষয়বস্তু সম্পৰ্কে জ্ঞান নথকা  বা সেই তথ্যৰ লগত সন্মত নোহোৱা ব্যক্তি এজনে আহি সলাই দিব পাৰে বা খেলিমেলিৰ সৃষ্টি কৰিব পাৰে। উল্লেখযোগ্য যে অন্যান্য প্ৰায় সকলো বিশ্বকোষ আৰু প্ৰসংগ-কৰ্মৰ একেধৰণৰ   আছে।
 প্ৰবন্ধবোৰৰ বিশ্বাসযোগ্য সংস্কৰণ চিনাক্ত কৰিবৰ বাবে আমি চেষ্টা কৰি আছোঁ। আমাৰ সক্ৰিয় সম্পাদকসকলে   আৰু   আদি সঁজুলিৰ জৰিয়তে নতুন আৰু পৰিৱৰ্তিত সমলৰ ওপৰত চকু ৰাখে। কিন্তু ৱিকিপিডিয়াত নিয়মিত পুনৰ্নিৰীক্ষণ কৰা নহয়। যদিও পাঠকসকলে ভুল-ত্ৰুটি শুধৰাব পাৰে আৰু সাধাৰণ   কৰিব পাৰে, তেওঁলোকৰ তেনে কোনো আইনী দায়িত্ব নাই আৰু গতিকে ইয়াত পোৱা সকলো তথ্যৰ যিকোনো ঠাইত ব্যৱহাৰৰ বাবে মানৰ নিশ্চয়তা নাই। আনকি অনানুষ্ঠানিকভাৱে পুনৰ্নিৰীক্ষণ কৰা বা  ও আপুনি চোৱাৰ আগে আগে কাৰোবাৰদ্বাৰা বেয়াকৈ সম্পাদিত হ'ব পাৰে।
 
 অনুগ্ৰহ কৰি নিশ্চিত হৈ লওক যে ইয়ালৈ বৰঙণি আগবঢ়োৱা তথ্যসমূহ বিনামূলীয়াকৈ দিয়া হৈছে; আৰু আপোনাৰ লগত এই চাইটৰ গৰাকী, চাইটৰ ব্যৱহাৰকাৰী, চাইটৰ চাৰ্ভাৰৰ গৰাকী, ৱিকিপিডিয়াৰ গাইগুটীয়া অৱদানকাৰী, প্ৰশাসক বা এই প্ৰকল্পৰ সৈতে যিকোনোভাৱে জড়িত কোনো ব্যক্তিৰে চুক্তি স্বাক্ষৰিত হোৱা নাই। এওঁলোক কোনোৱেই আপোনাৰ দাবীৰ লগত সম্পৰ্কিত নহয়। আপোনাক এই চাইটৰ পৰা যিকোনো কথা কপী কৰাৰ স্বাধীনতা দিয়া হৈছে; ইয়াৰ দ্বাৰা ৱিকিপিডিয়াৰ কোনো সদস্য, এজেণ্ট, সংগঠক বা ব্যৱহাৰকাৰীৰ লগত কোনো চুক্তিভিত্তিক বা অচুক্তিভিত্তিক দায়বদ্ধতাৰ সৃষ্টি কৰা হোৱা নাই।
  (CC-BY-SA) আৰু   (GFDL)ৰ আওতাৰ বাহিৰত এই তথ্যসমূহৰ ব্যৱহাৰ আৰু পৰিৱৰ্তনৰ বাবে  । আপুনি ৱিকিপিডিয়া বা ইয়াৰ সহযোগী প্ৰকল্পত লিখা কোনো তথ্য কোনোবাই সলালে, সম্পাদনা কৰিলে, পৰিৱৰ্তন কৰিলে বা আঁতৰালে ৱিকিপিডিয়াৰ কোনো ব্যক্তি দায়ী নহ'ব।
 ৱিকিপিডিয়াৰ প্ৰবন্ধৰ প্ৰদৰ্শিত, উল্লেখিত বা উদ্ধৃত কোনো ট্ৰেড্‌মাৰ্ক, চাৰ্ভিছ মাৰ্ক, কালেক্‌টিভ মাৰ্ক, ডিজাইন স্বত্ব বা একেধৰণৰ স্বত্ব সেইবোৰৰ নিজ নিজ স্বত্বাধিকাৰীৰ সম্পত্তি। সেইবোৰ ইয়াত ব্যৱহাৰ হোৱাৰ অৰ্থ এই নহয় যে আপুনি CC-BY-SA আৰু GFDL অনুজ্ঞাপত্ৰৰ আওতাৰ বাহিৰত সেইবোৰৰ অন্য ব্যৱহাৰ কৰিব পাৰিব। উল্লেখ নকৰালৈকে ৱিকিপিডিয়া বা ৱিকিমিডিয়া চাইটসমূহ তেনে স্বত্বাধিকাৰীৰ লগত যুক্ত নহয় আৰু গতিকে ৱিকিপিডিয়াই কোনো সংৰক্ষিত বিষয়ৰ ব্যৱহাৰৰ অনুমতি দিব নোৱাৰে। এনেধৰণৰ ব্যৱসায়িক সম্পত্তিৰ ব্যৱহাৰৰ বাবে আপুনি নিজে দায়বদ্ধ।
 ৱিকিপিডিয়াত থকা কোনো বিষয়ে এজন চিনাকী জীৱিত বা সদ্য মৃত ব্যক্তিক চিত্ৰিত কৰিব পাৰে। কপিৰাইট মুক্ত নহ'লে জীৱিত বা সদ্য মৃত ব্যক্তিৰ ছবিৰ ব্যৱহাৰ কোনো কোনো বিচাৰব্যৱস্থাত  ৰ দ্বাৰা সীমাবদ্ধ। এনে সমল ব্যৱহাৰ কৰাৰ আগতে নিশ্চিত হওক যে আপুনি ব্যৱহাৰ কৰিব খোজা ধৰণে তাক ব্যৱহাৰ কৰাৰ আইনগত অধিকাৰ আপোনাৰ আছে।  
 ৱিকিপিডিয়াৰ তথ্যসমূহৰ প্ৰকাশ আপুনি যি দেশৰ পৰা এই তথ্যসমূহ প্ৰত্যক্ষ কৰিছে সেই দেশৰ বিচাৰব্যৱস্থা অনুসৰি আইন উলঙ্ঘন হ'ব পাৰে। ৱিকিপিডিয়াৰ তথ্যসমূহ  ৰ   ৰাজ্যত থকা এটা চাৰ্ভাৰত সংৰক্ষণ কৰা হৈছে, আৰু ইয়াক তাৰ আঞ্চলিক আৰু ফেডাৰেল আইনৰ অধীনত চোৱাচিতা কৰা হয়। আপোনাৰ দেশৰ আইনৰ হয়তো সেই আইনৰ লগত সাদৃশ্য নাথাকিব পাৰে। ৱিকিপিডিয়াই কোনো আইন উলঙ্ঘনক উৎসাহিত নকৰে। আপুনি এই ডমেইনৰ বিভিন্ন লিংকত থকা কোনো তথ্য ব্যৱহাৰ, পুনৰ্ব্যৱহাৰ বা পুনৰ্প্ৰকাশ কৰিলে ৱিকিপিডিয়াই কোনো আইন ভঙ্গৰ দায়িত্ব গ্ৰহণ নকৰে।
 যদি আপোনাক কোনো সুনিৰ্দিষ্ট পৰামৰ্শৰ প্ৰয়োজন (যেনে- চিকিৎসা সম্পৰ্কীয়, আইনী, অৰ্থনৈতিক, বা বিপদাশঙ্কা ব্যৱস্থাপনা), অনুগ্ৰহ কৰি এজন বিশেষজ্ঞ বা তেনে ক্ষেত্ৰত অনুজ্ঞাপত্ৰ থকা ব্যক্তিৰ শৰণাপন্ন হওক।


URL: https://sn.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: Bhaibheri


URL: https://arc.wikipedia.org/wiki/%DC%98%DC%9D%DC%A9%DC%9D%DC%A6%DC%95%DC%9D%DC%90:General_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://arc.wikipedia.org/wiki/%DC%98%DC%9D%DC%A9%DC%9D%DC%A6%DC%95%DC%9D%DC%90:General_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://ast.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Llimitaci%C3%B3n_xeneral_de_responsabilid%C3%A1

Content:  –   –   –   – [[Uiquipedia:Avisu de conteníu|Avisu de conteníu]
 
  ye una enciclopedia collaborativa, na rede, de conteníu abiertu, ye dicir, una asociación voluntaria de persones y grupos que desendolquen conxuntamente una fonte del conocimientu humanu. La so cadarma de furrulamientu permite a cualquier persona que dispón de conexón a Internet, y d'un navegador web, modificar el conteníu de los sos artículos o páxines. Poro, por favor tenga presente que   que conocen los temes de les estremaes materies qu'abarca, de la forma necesaria pa proporcionar una información completa, precisa y fiable.
 Esto nun significa que nun vaya alcontrar información esauta y valiosa en Wikipedia; asina será les más de les veces. Sincasí,  . El conteníu de cualquier artículu, pue tar recientemente camudáu,   o alteráu por daquién del que la so opinión pue non corresponder col estáu de los conocimientos nes estayes pertinentes.
 La información equí contenida suminístrase llibremente y de baldre, ensin crear nenguna mena d'alcuerdu o contratu ente usté y los propietarios o usuarios d'esti sitiu, los propietarios de los servidores nos qu'esti sitiu web ta agospiáu, los contribuyentes individuales de Wikipedia, los alministradores de cualquier proyeutu, los operadores del sistema, nin persona dala venceyada con esti proyeutu o otros proyeutos hermanos. Se-y concede a usté una llicencia allendada pa copiar cualquier material d'esti sitiu; esa llicencia nun crea responsabilidá contrautual o estracontrautual de parte de Wikipedia nin nengún de los sos axentes, miembros, organizadores o otros usuarios.   (pa mayor información, llea detenidamente la  . Una esplicación sobre la llicencia, pero non  los sos términos y condiciones, ta disponible  ).
 Esti   que cubra l'emplegu o les modificaciones qu'usté faiga al respeutive de la información, más allá de los términos de la Llicencia de documentación llibre GNU; naide en Wikipedia pue ser consideráu responsable de los camudamientos, alteraciones, modificaciones o eliminaciones de cualquier información qu'usté realice en Wikipedia o cualquiera de los sos proyeutos asociaos.
 Cualesquier marques rexistraes, marques de serviciu, marques coleutives, drechos de diseñu o otros drechos de propiedá industrial que se menten, empleguen o citen nos artículos o páxines de Wikipedia son propiedá de los respeutivos titulares. El so emplegu equí nun implica qu'ustá puea emplegalos pa otru envís estremáu del emplegu informativu calcáu o asemeyáu al vistu polos autores orixinales de los artículos en Wikipedia baxo los términos de la  .
 Sacantes indicación al aviesu, los sitios web de Wikipedia y Wikimedia nun tán venceyaos colos titulares de los mentaos drechos, y poro, Wikipedia nun pue dar derechu dalu pal emplegu de materiales protexíos. L'emplegu que vusté faiga d'esa propiedá inmaterial o asemeyaes ye esclusivamente baxo la so propia cuenta.
 Sacante indicación de lo aviesu, les conclusiones, les interpretaciones y los albidros espresaos nos artículos de Wikipedia correspuenden a los sos respeutivos autores, y nun representen necesariamente'l puntu de vista de Wikipedia.
 La información suministrada  
 Si necesita asesoramientu específicu (por exemplu, médicu, llegal, financieru, o de xestión de riesgos), por favor solicite un profesional que tenga llicencia o conocencia de la materia.
 
 Por calter xeneral,  . Si estu pue suponer un problema, por favor asténgase del so emplegu. Si ye menor d'edá, consulte a sos proxenitores o tutores llegales primero de facer usu de Wikipedia.


URL: https://ast.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Llimitaci%C3%B3n_xeneral_de_responsabilid%C3%A1

Content:  –   –   –   – [[Uiquipedia:Avisu de conteníu|Avisu de conteníu]
 
  ye una enciclopedia collaborativa, na rede, de conteníu abiertu, ye dicir, una asociación voluntaria de persones y grupos que desendolquen conxuntamente una fonte del conocimientu humanu. La so cadarma de furrulamientu permite a cualquier persona que dispón de conexón a Internet, y d'un navegador web, modificar el conteníu de los sos artículos o páxines. Poro, por favor tenga presente que   que conocen los temes de les estremaes materies qu'abarca, de la forma necesaria pa proporcionar una información completa, precisa y fiable.
 Esto nun significa que nun vaya alcontrar información esauta y valiosa en Wikipedia; asina será les más de les veces. Sincasí,  . El conteníu de cualquier artículu, pue tar recientemente camudáu,   o alteráu por daquién del que la so opinión pue non corresponder col estáu de los conocimientos nes estayes pertinentes.
 La información equí contenida suminístrase llibremente y de baldre, ensin crear nenguna mena d'alcuerdu o contratu ente usté y los propietarios o usuarios d'esti sitiu, los propietarios de los servidores nos qu'esti sitiu web ta agospiáu, los contribuyentes individuales de Wikipedia, los alministradores de cualquier proyeutu, los operadores del sistema, nin persona dala venceyada con esti proyeutu o otros proyeutos hermanos. Se-y concede a usté una llicencia allendada pa copiar cualquier material d'esti sitiu; esa llicencia nun crea responsabilidá contrautual o estracontrautual de parte de Wikipedia nin nengún de los sos axentes, miembros, organizadores o otros usuarios.   (pa mayor información, llea detenidamente la  . Una esplicación sobre la llicencia, pero non  los sos términos y condiciones, ta disponible  ).
 Esti   que cubra l'emplegu o les modificaciones qu'usté faiga al respeutive de la información, más allá de los términos de la Llicencia de documentación llibre GNU; naide en Wikipedia pue ser consideráu responsable de los camudamientos, alteraciones, modificaciones o eliminaciones de cualquier información qu'usté realice en Wikipedia o cualquiera de los sos proyeutos asociaos.
 Cualesquier marques rexistraes, marques de serviciu, marques coleutives, drechos de diseñu o otros drechos de propiedá industrial que se menten, empleguen o citen nos artículos o páxines de Wikipedia son propiedá de los respeutivos titulares. El so emplegu equí nun implica qu'ustá puea emplegalos pa otru envís estremáu del emplegu informativu calcáu o asemeyáu al vistu polos autores orixinales de los artículos en Wikipedia baxo los términos de la  .
 Sacantes indicación al aviesu, los sitios web de Wikipedia y Wikimedia nun tán venceyaos colos titulares de los mentaos drechos, y poro, Wikipedia nun pue dar derechu dalu pal emplegu de materiales protexíos. L'emplegu que vusté faiga d'esa propiedá inmaterial o asemeyaes ye esclusivamente baxo la so propia cuenta.
 Sacante indicación de lo aviesu, les conclusiones, les interpretaciones y los albidros espresaos nos artículos de Wikipedia correspuenden a los sos respeutivos autores, y nun representen necesariamente'l puntu de vista de Wikipedia.
 La información suministrada  
 Si necesita asesoramientu específicu (por exemplu, médicu, llegal, financieru, o de xestión de riesgos), por favor solicite un profesional que tenga llicencia o conocencia de la materia.
 
 Por calter xeneral,  . Si estu pue suponer un problema, por favor asténgase del so emplegu. Si ye menor d'edá, consulte a sos proxenitores o tutores llegales primero de facer usu de Wikipedia.


URL: https://cy.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wicipedia:Gwadiad_Cyffredinol

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 I CYFIEITHU:
 P  R  T  S  B  C  B  L  T  P  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable, but still without warranty, versions of articles. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the  ; neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&returnto=Wikipedia%3AGeneral+disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://da.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Generelle_forbehold

Content:  er et   samarbejdsdrevet   og udgøres af en frivillig og åben sammenslutning af enkeltpersoner og grupper, som frit arbejder på at udvikle en fælles open source kundskabsressource af     for at gøre forskelligt  ,   og informativt stof frit tilgængeligt på  . Strukturen i projektet giver alle med en   mulighed for at ændre i indholdet. Vær opmærksom på, at det, der findes her, muligvis ikke er blevet gennemgået af personer med den nødvendige  , indenfor de bestemte emner, der er nødvendige for at levere fuldstændige, korrekte eller pålidelige  .
 Det er ikke ensbetydende med, at der ikke kan findes mange   og nøjagtige informationer i Wikipedia. Men   Indholdet i en given artikel kan for nylig være blevet ændret, udsat for   eller ændret af én person, hvis meninger ikke svarer til den eksisterende viden på de relevante områder. Bemærk, at de fleste andre leksika og opslagsværker også har lignende ansvarsfraskrivelser.
 Der arbejdes på metoder til at udvælge og fremhæve de mest pålidelige versioner af artikler, men det er stadig uden garanti. Et aktiv fællesskab af frivillige bidragsydere bruger   såsom   og   til at overvåge nyt og skiftende indhold, men     Selv artikler, der er blevet undersøgt af en uformel   eller været igennem processen for   kan have gennemgået en nådesløs redigering kort før de bliver læst.
 Ingen af de enkelte skribenter, udgiverne, bidragyderne, samarbejdspartnerne,  , udviklerne, systemoperatørerne, vandalerne,   af Wikipedia eller nogen som helst anden person eller   med tilknytning til Wikipedia, på hvilken måde det end måtte være, kan drages til ansvar for resultaterne eller afledte konsekvenserne af ethvert forsøg på at anvende informationer og eventuelle unøjagtige eller injurierende oplysninger, der præsenteres på eller er forbundet med disse  , eller som nås via   derfra. Enhver brug af oplysninger, uanset om der måtte forekomme unøjagtig eller skødesløs information, vil udelukkende være på eget ansvar.
 Oplysninger fra Wikipedia stilles   og frivilligt til rådighed og at der findes ikke nogen form for aftale eller   mellem dig og   eller   af Wikipedia, ejerne af   som huser Wikipedia, de enkelte Wikipedia bidragydere, nogen som helst af projektets administratorer, system-operatører eller andre, der på en eller anden måde er forbundet med dette projekt eller dets søsterprojekter, der kan begrunde retskrav fra dig direkte. Der gives en begrænset ret til at kopiere fra denne webside, men det skaber ikke eller det omfatter ikke noget som helst kontraktlige eller ekstrakontraktlige erstatningsansvarlige forpligtelser på Wikipedias side eller for nogen af dets repræsentanter, medlemmer,   eller andre brugere.
  vedrørende din brug eller ændring af oplysningerne ud over   (CC-BY-SA 3.0), ligeledes er ingen på Wikipedia ansvarlig, hvis nogen skulle ændre, redigere, modificere eller fjerne nogen af de oplysninger du måtte lægge ind på Wikipedia eller nogen af dens tilknyttede projekter.
 Alle  , servicemærker, fællesmærker,   eller lignende  , der er nævnt, som anvendes eller som refereres til i   på Wikipedia tilhører deres respektive ejere. Deres anvendelse på Wikipedia er ikke ensbetydende med, at de kan bruges til ethvert andet formål end for den samme eller en lignende informativ brug som påtænkt af de oprindelige forfatterne af artiklerne på Wikipedia under licensen   (CC-BY-SA 3.0). Medmindre andet er anført, er Wikipedia eller   hverken støttet eller tilknyttet nogen af indehaverne af sådanne rettigheder, og kan ikke give nogen tilladelse til at bruge ethvert andet beskyttet materiale. Brug af sådanne eller lignende immatrial ejendom er på eget ansvar.
 Wikipedia kan indeholde motiver, der viser en eller flere genkendelige,   eller nyligt    , som i nogle  ,   eller  , kan være begrænset af lovgivning omhandlende beskyttelse af privatlivets fred. Disse regler er uafhængige af billedets   status. Inden dette type indhold benyttes, skal det sikres, at de gældende regler om beskyttelse af privatlivets fred ikke overtrædes og man har ret til at bruge den i henhold til den lovgivning, som gælder i den individuelle planlagte anvendelse. Du er alene ansvarlig for at sikre, at andres privatliv og rettigheder ikke krænkes.
 Offentliggørelse af oplysninger, der findes på Wikipedia, kan være i strid med lovgivningen i det land eller den  , hvor læseren ser disse oplysninger. Informationerne på Wikipedia er lagret på   i     i   (USA) og vedligeholdes med henvisning til de beskyttelser, der ydes i henhold til den lokale og føderale lovgivning. Informationerne er sikret i medfør af De Forenede Staters   første tilføjelse og af   universelle erklæring om  . Loven i dit land eller juristiktion anerkender muligvis ikke den samme form for omfattende beskyttelse af retten til at tale og skrive som De Forenede Staters love eller De Forenede Nationers Charter. Wikipedia tilskynder ikke til overtrædelse af nogen lov og kan i den sammenhæng ikke gøres ansvarlig for eventuelle overtrædelser af sådanne love, i forbindelse med at du linker til dette  , reproducerer eller genbruger nogen af de oplysninger, der findes her, på nogen som helst måde.
 Hvis du har behov for særlig rådgivning (for eksempel af  ,   eller   eller   art) bedes du opsøge en professionel kyndig, som har ret til at drive virksomhed eller som har specialviden på det område. Læs  ,   og   angående specifikke forbehold.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&returnto=Wikipedia%3AGeneral+disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://sah.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%91%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B8%D1%8D%D0%B4%D1%8C%D0%B8%D0%B9%D1%8D:%D0%91%D2%AF%D0%BA_%D0%BE%D1%85%D1%81%D1%83%D0%BD%D1%83%D1%83

Content: 
 , дьон уонна дьон бөлөхтөрө түмсэн киһи-аймах билиитин мунньар  -энциклопедиялара. Бырайыак тутула ханнык баҕарар Интэриниэттээх уонна браузердаах киһи бырайыак ис хоһоонун уларытарын көҥүллүүр. Ол иһин, манна суруллубуту сорҕотун идэтийбит, билиилээх дьон көрө, тургута илик буолуон сөп, онон, бука диэн, манна барыта эҥкилэ суох итэҕэтиилээх суруллар диэн саныыр табыллыбат. 
 Бикипиэдьийэҕэ элбэх туһалаах баарын үрдүнэн, онно   өйдүөхтээххин. Ааҕар түгэҥҥэр уларытылла охсубут, алҕас киирбит эбэтэр үгүс дьон санаатын кытта сөп түбэспэт санаалаах киһи уларыппыт буолуон сөп.  
 Биһиги ыстатыйалар итэҕэтиилээх буолар суолларын куруук көрдүү турабыт, ол эрээри тугу да мэктиэлиир, эрэннэрэр кыахпыт суох. Биир ситиһиибит —  , ол гынан баран, оннооҕор ол ыстатыйалары кытта ким эрэ Эн ааҕыаҥ иннинэ аҕай уларыта охсубут буолуон сөп.
 Манна баар билии барыта аһаҕас, үтүө дьайыы быһыытынан көрдөрүллэр. Эн уонна ситим-сир бас билээччилэрин, сиэрбэр бас билээччилэрин, Бикипиэдьийэ ааптардарын, дьаһабылларын, ону тэҥэ Бикипиэдьийэни кытта   уонна атылыы бырайыактары кытта туох да ирдэбил төрүөтэ буолар сөбүлэҥэ, сөбүлэһии түһэрсиитэ суох көрдөрүллэрин, бука диэн, өйдүүргүтүгэр көрдөһөбүт. Бу ситим-сир иһинээҕитин сүһэн ылар хааччахтаах быраап Эйиэхэ бэриллэр — бу быраап Бикипиэдьийэ ханнык да сорҕото эбэтэр кини ааҕыннара, кыттааччылара, тэрийээччилэрэ уонна атын туһанааччылара эппиэтинэһи сүгэллэрин хааччыйбат. 
 Табаар, сулууспа уонна тэрилтэ ханнык баҕарар бэлиэтэ, аата, тас көстүүгэ быраап, ааптар уонна сэргэ быраап ыстатыйаҕа туһаныллар, таарыллар да буоллаҕына бас билээччилэргэ бэйэлэригэр хаалар. Манна олору туттуу   лиссиэнсийэ эрэ ирдэбилин иһинэн туһанартан атыны көҥүллээбэт. Өскөтө атын ыйыллыбатах буоллаҕына, Бикипиэдьийэ уонна Викимиэдьийэ Пуондатын ситим-сирдэрэ бас билээччилэри кытта туох да ситимнэрэ суох, онон Бикипиэдьийэ ааптар быраабынан көмүскэнэр матырыйааллары дьаһайар кыаҕа суох.  
 Болҕой, Бикипиэдьийэҕэ баары тарҕатыы уонна уларытыы эн ситим-сири көрө олорор дойдуҥ сокуонун кэһиэн сөп. Бикипиэдьийэ сокуону кэһэргэ ыҥырбат, ол эрээри, ситим-сир  -ка баар сиэрбэргэ харалла сытарынан, биһиги АХШ Сүрүн сокуонун Бастакы көннөрүүтэ уонна ХНТ Киһи быраабын биирдэһиллибит декларацията биэрбит бырааптарынан туһанабыт. Эн дойдуҥ сокуоннара тыл көҥүлүн көмүскүүрү АХШ сокуонуттан уонна ХНТ Хартиятыттан кыараҕастык көрүөхтэрин сөп, оннук түгэҥҥэ Бикипиэдьийэ ол сокуоннары Эн кэспиккэр эппиэтинэһи сүкпэт. 
 , тоҕо диэтэххэ дьон бэйэлэрин баҕатынан түмсэн үөрэтэр, култуураны сайыннарар, билиини тарҕатар соруктаах тэрийбит бөлөхтөрө буолар.   уонна билиини туһанарга биитэр уларытарга,   лиссиэнсиэҕэ суруллубатах  . Ону таһынан Бикипиэдьийэҕэ уонна кинини кытта ситимнээх бырайыактарга Эн укпутуҥ эбэтэр соппутуҥ туһуттан ким да эппиэтинэһи сүкпэт. 
 Бу сирэйи аахпыккар махталбытын тиэрдэбит. Бикипиэдьийэттэн үтүөнү эрэ буларгар баҕарабыт.


URL: https://an.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Alvertencias_chenerals

Content:   
   


URL: https://an.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Alvertencias_chenerals

Content:   
   


URL: https://pl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Korzystasz_z_Wikipedii_tylko_na_w%C5%82asn%C4%85_odpowiedzialno%C5%9B%C4%87

Content: Wikipedia jest encyklopedią sieciową tworzoną w otwartym gronie współpracowników, czyli w grupie ochotników i grup wolontariuszy, wspólnie zbierających ludzką wiedzę. Przyjęte założenia pozwalają każdej osobie dysponującej połączeniem z Internetem na zmienianie treści Wikipedii. Należy jednak zakładać, że zamieszczone w projekcie treści nie zostały przejrzane przez osoby kompetentne w poszczególnych dziedzinach wiedzy i że mogą one nie stanowić kompletnej, dokładnej czy rzetelnej informacji.
 Nie oznacza to, że w Wikipedii nie da się znaleźć wartościowych i dokładnych informacji – w wielu przypadkach Wikipedia zamieszcza materiały dobrej jakości. Wikipedia jednak  . Zawartość dowolnego hasła mogła niedawno ulec zmianom lub zniszczeniu przez osoby, których opinie nie są zbieżne z aktualnym stanem wiedzy w danej dziedzinie. Większość innych encyklopedii, co warte odnotowania, również zawiera oświadczenia podobne do niniejszego.
 Pracujemy nad tym, by przedstawiać i oznaczać wartościowe wersje haseł w Wikipedii. Aktywna społeczność współtwórców Wikipedii korzysta z różnych mechanizmów, na przykład  , czy  , w celu monitorowania pojawiających się nowych haseł oraz modyfikacji w istniejących. Wikipedia nie korzysta jednak z jakiegokolwiek formalnego systemu przeglądu treści – użytkownicy mogą poprawiać błędy i angażować się w nieformalne kręgi zainteresowań, nie są jednak do tego w żaden sposób zobligowani – zawarte więc w Wikipedii treści nie niosą z sobą zapewnienia, że są odpowiednie do jakiegokolwiek wykorzystania. Nawet artykuły, które w wyniku nieformalnego przeglądu zostały wyróżnione statusem haseł  , mogły zostać w nieodpowiedni sposób zmienione tuż przed ich wyświetleniem jednemu z czytelników.
 
 Należy pamiętać, ze prezentowane w Wikipedii treści publikowane są za darmo i że pomiędzy czytelnikiem a właścicielami i użytkownikami serwisu nie jest w wyniku czytania treści Wikipedii zawierana jakakolwiek umowa. Podobna zależność zachodzi w odniesieniu do właścicieli serwerów udostępniających treści Wikipedii, poszczególnych współredaktorów projektu, administratorów, personelu technicznego albo kogokolwiek w jakikolwiek sposób związanego z Wikipedią lub jej projektami siostrzanymi. Czytelnicy otrzymują treści na ograniczonej licencji, pozwalającej na kopiowanie prezentowanych im treści; licencja ta nie nakłada jednak na Wikipedię ani żadnego z jej współtwórców, członków, organizatorów, czy innych użytkowników żadnych zobowiązań wynikających z umowy lub od umowy niezależnych.
 Pomiędzy czytelnikiem a Wikipedią   w kwestii wykorzystywania zmodyfikowanych treści haseł wykraczająca poza ustalenia licencji   oraz  . Podobnie, nikt powiązany w jakikolwiek sposób z Wikipedią nie jest odpowiedzialny za modyfikowanie, edytowanie, czy usuwanie informacji zamieszczanych przez poszczególnych użytkowników w Wikipedii i jej projektach siostrzanych.
 Wszelkie  , usługowe, organizacyjne, prawa projektowe i inne przywołane, wykorzystywane i cytowane w hasłach Wikipedii, należą do ich właścicieli. Ich zamieszczenie na stronach Wikipedii nie oznacza, że dopuszczalne jest wykorzystywanie ich w sposób inny, niż założyli to współtwórcy artykułów Wikipedii: informacyjny i udostępniony na mocy licencji CC-BY-SA 3.0 oraz GFDL. O ile nie zaznaczono inaczej, strony projektów Wikimedia, w tym Wikipedii, nie są autoryzowane przez właścicieli praw, czy z nimi związane, więc Wikipedia nie gwarantuje wolności użytkowania tego rodzaju materiałów. Korzystasz z tego rodzaju i podobnej własności intelektualnej na własne ryzyko.
 Wikipedia zawiera materiały mogące przedstawiać wizerunki identyfikowalnych osób, które jeszcze żyją lub niedawno zmarły. W niektórych systemach prawnych wykorzystywanie wizerunków osób żyjących lub niedawno zmarłych jest regulowane prawami dotyczącymi ochrony  , niezależnie od ich statusu prawnoautorskiego. Przed wykorzystaniem zawartości tego typu należy upewnić się, czy można użyć jej zgodnie z prawem, które dotyczy warunków danego zastosowania tej zawartości.  
 Publikowanie znalezionych w Wikipedii informacji może być sprzeczne z systemem prawnym państwa, z terytorium którego przeglądana jest zawartość Wikipedii. Baza danych Wikipedii umieszczona jest na serwerach znajdujących się na terenie Stanów Zjednoczonych i prowadzona jest zgodnie z zasadami ochrony prawa lokalnego oraz federalnego tego kraju. System prawny kraju, z którego przeglądana jest zawartość Wikipedii, może nie zezwalać na taką samą wolność słowa lub rozpowszechniania informacji jak prawo amerykańskie. Wikipedia nie zachęca do naruszania żadnych przepisów prawa i nie może odpowiadać za ewentualne ich naruszenie, w przypadku gdy ktoś umieści link do jej strony, użyje, powieli lub opublikuje zawarte w niej informacje.
 Osoby chcące uzyskać poradę w określonej dziedzinie (np. medyczną, prawną, finansową czy związaną z zarządzaniem ryzykiem) powinny skonsultować się ze specjalistą w tej dziedzinie.


URL: https://ceb.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Mga_pagpasabot

Content: A  W  W  M  S  U  M  S  N 
 Ang   usa ka onlayn nga ensayklopedya nga gisulat sa boluntaryong asosasyon sa mga indibiduwal ug pundok nga nagdebelop sa usa ka komon nga rekursos sa kahibalo sa tawo. Ang istruktura sa proyekto naghatag katungod ni bisan kinsa nga may koneksiyon sa Internet ug may brawser sa Kalibotanong Gambalayan (WWW) nga usbon ang sulod niini. Palihog hinumdomi nga walay ania sa sulod niini ang girebyu sa mga propesyonal nga may kabatid nga gikinahanglan aron matino nga ang impormasyon kompleto, ensakto, ug reliyable.
 Kini wala magpasabot nga dili ka makakita dinhi og bililhon ug ensaktong impormasyon; sagad makakita ka. Apan ang  vandalize 
 Kami nangita og mga paagi nga mapili ug mahaylayt ang mga reliyableng bersiyon sa mga artikulo. Ang among aktibong katilingban sa mga editor, magtatampo ug magsusulat mogamit sa mga galamiton sama sa   ug   aron mabantayan ang mga bag-o ug bag-ong giusab nga sulod. Apan bisan kon ang mga gumagamit sa   mobantay sa mga bag-ong giusab, sila walay legal nga katungdanan nga himoon kini ug busa ang bisan unsang impormasyon sa sulod niini walay   sa bisan unsang maong katuyoan o gamit.
 Palihog tinoa nga nasabtan mo nga ang impormasyon sa sulod ning Wikipedya gidalit kanimo nga walay bayad, ug nga walay bisan unsa mang klase sa panagsabot o kontrata nga namugna taliwala kanimo ug sa mga tag-iya ning maong balayan, sa mga tag-iya sa mga serber diin kini gibutang, sa mga magtatampo sa Wikipedya, sa mga tigdumala sa bisan unsa mang proyekto, sa mga burukrata, ug ni bisan kinsang may kalabotan sa Wikipedya. Gihatagan ka og limitadong lisensiya sa pagkopya sa bisan unsa gikan niining balayan; kini wala magmugna o mag-  og bisan unsa mang kontraktuwal o ekstra-kontraktuwal nga layabilidad sa bahin sa   o bisan asa sa iyang mga ahente, sakop, tig-organisa, o uban pang gumagamit.
 Walay bisan unsa mang kasabotan o panagsabot taliwala kanimo ug sa   kalabot sa imong paggamit o pag-usab sa impormasyon sa sulod niini gawas sa gibut-an sa   (GFDL); wala usay bisan kinsa sa   nga responsable kon dunay mousab, mopuno, o motangtang og bisan unsang impormasyon nga imong ibutang ning balayan o sa iyang mga igsoong proyekto.
 Ang mga tatak sa negosyo, mga tatak sa serbisyo, mga tatak kolektibo, mga katungod sa desinyo, mga katungod sa personalidad, o susamang katungod nga gihisgotan, gigamit, o gikutlo sa mga artikulo nining Wikipedya nga ensayklopedya panag-iya sa ilang tagsa-tagsang tag-iya. Ang pagkagamit nila dinhi wala magpasabot nga magamit mo usab sila sa ubang katuyoan gawas lamang sa sama o susamang katuyoan sa paghatod og impormasyon sama sa orihinal nga intensiyon sa mga tagmugna sa maong mga artikulo sa Wikipedya. Gawas lamang kon may gisulat kami sa baligho, ang Wikipedya ug ang mga balayan sa Wikimedia wlaa mag-endorsar ni kini may kalabotan sa mga tag-iya sa ingong katungod. Tungod niini ang Wikipedya dili makahatag og mga katungod sa paggamit ning maong mga protektadong mga materyal.  
 Ang publikasyon sa impormasyon nga makita sa   mahimong usa ka pagsupak sa mga balaod sa nasod o hurisdiksiyon diin ka nagtan-aw ning maong impormasyon. Ang   sa Sinugboanong Wikipedya nahimutang sa mga serber sa estado sa   sa  , ug kini gimentinar sumala sa ma katungod ug proteksiyon nga gihatag sa lokal nga balaod nga estado sa Florida ug sa pederal nga balaod sa Estados Unidos. Ang mga balaod sa imong nasod o hurisdiksiyon mahimong wala maghatag sa samang katungod og proteksiyon. Ang   wala magdasig sa maong pagsupak sa bisan unsang balaod; ug kini dili mahimong responsable sa pagsupak sa maong mga balaod, kon mosumpay ka man ning maong dominyo, o mogamit sa sulod niini.
 Kon nagkinahanglan kag espisipikong mga tambag (pananglitan, medikal, legal, pinansiyal, o pagdumala sa risgo) palihog pangita og propesyonal nga lisensiya o nakahibalo sa maong natad. Palihog tan-awa ang  ,  ,   alang sa mga espisipikong pagpasabot.
 Salamat sa imong pagbasa ning maong panid, ug unta magmabungahon ang imong paggamit sa  .
 Samtang ang ubang ensayklopedya girebyu sa mga propesyonal, dili sama sa Wikipedya, sila wala gihapon maghatag og garantiya sa ilang sulod.


URL: https://af.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: Vir die Engelse  , sien gerus  
 Hierdie internet-  word uiteindelik deur die publiek self geskryf. Hoewel amper iedere bydraer tot die projek ernstig poog om korrekte inligting te verskaf, kan geen algemene waarborg daaroor gegee word nie. 'n Duidelike fout sal meestal vinnig duidelik word aan die andere deelnemers en sal daardeur ook reggestel word. Die algemene ontwikkeling gaan in die rigting van groter en meer korrekte bydraes, maar in individuele gevalle kan 'n terugval intree. Daar word egter deurgaans op vollediger en meer korrekte artikels gemik.
 U word aangeraai om naas hierdie ensiklopedie ook ander bronne en gespesialiseerde naslaanwerk te raadpleeg. Vergelyk daarnaas gerus die inhoud met ander ensiklopedieë of ander werke.
 As u dink dat daar wel 'n   is met die teks, verbeter dit gerus -   -   -   - plaas gerus 'n opmerking daaroor op die   wat by die bladsy hoort. 'n Ander moontlikheid is om die   te bekyk en na te gaan wie dit geskryf het en 'n opmerking op die betrokke outeur se besprekingsbladsy te maak.
 Die vrywilligers wat tot hierdie ensiklopedie bydra (dit is die publiek, en dus ook uself) aanvaar geen aanspreeklikheid vir die korrektheid van die gegewe inligting nie. Daar kan selfs nie gewaarborg word dat die outeurs/bydraers aan die artikels sorgvuldigheid in ag geneem het met die formulering van die artikels nie. Gebruik van die inligting is geheel en al vry, maar wel op eie risiko.
 Daar is gebruikers bekend as   wat oor ekstra gereedskap beskik op tegniese vlak betreffende hierdie webwerf. Dit sluit in die verwydering van bladsye, beveiliging van bladsye en die ontneem van skryfregte van gebruikers, deur hulle te blokkeer. Dit is moontlikhede waaroor gewone gebruikers nie beskik nie. Hierdie groep vrywilligers dien nie as die webmeesters nie, maar eerder as die opsieners van Wikipedia. Dit is 'n uitvoerende funksie waaroor hulle beskik. Die daaglikse bestuur van die Afrikaanse Wikipedia gaan in die praktyk uit van die gemeenskap van die Afrikaanse Wikipedia.
 Op regsvlak is die   die eindverantwoordelike party.
 As daar volgens u 'n probleem is, tree eerstens in kontak met die Afrikaanse Wikipedia. En as u 'n klag wil lê, is dit ook moontlik, in Engels, by:
 Al die tekstuele materiaal op Wikipedia val onder die  -lisensie. Indien u 'n stuk sien wat oorgeneem is van elders anders, sonder die toestemming van die kopiereghouer, meld dit dan aan, of verander die stuk self.
 Vir die afbeeldings, oudio, video en ander media op Wikipedia geld dat dit nie alles onder die  -lisensie val nie. Daar kan dus sekere beperkinge wees op die gebruik van sulke media. Die verantwoordelikheid lê dan by die gebruiker van Wikipedia om daarna op te let. Deur op 'n afbeelding of skakel na die beskrywingsblad van 'n ander mediastuk te klik, kan sekerheid verkry word rakende die voorwaardes vir die gebruik van die mediastuk. Indien daar nie melding gemaak word van die outeursregte nie, dan moet daar aangeneem word dat daar eksterne outeursregte op die mediastuk is.
 Sien hiervoor: {{ }} (onlangs na Afrikaans vertaal).


URL: https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:Aviso_geral

Content: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A   é uma enciclopédia   de conteúdo aberto, isto é, uma associação voluntária de indivíduos e grupos que estão desenvolvendo um repositório comum do conhecimento humano. Sua estrutura permite que qualquer indivíduo com uma conexão à Internet e um navegador   possa alterar o conteúdo aqui encontrado. Portanto, por favor, esteja ciente de que nenhum conteúdo aqui encontrado foi necessariamente revisado por profissionais capacitados especificamente nas áreas de conhecimento necessárias, de modo a poder providenciar informações completas, precisas e credíveis sobre qualquer assunto na Wikipédia.
 Isso não quer dizer que não encontre muitas informações precisas e valiosas na Wikipédia; no entanto, tenha clara noção de que a   Elas podem ter sido mudadas, vandalizadas ou alteradas por alguém cuja opinião não corresponda ao "estado do conhecimento" na área particular que está interessado em aprender.
 Estamos trabalhando em maneiras de selecionar e aprovar versões confiáveis dos artigos, mas ainda assim sem garantias. A Wikipédia não é revista de forma constante e uniforme; a despeito dos leitores poderem corrigir erros ou remover sugestões incorretas, eles não têm nenhuma obrigação legal de fazê-lo e, portanto, nenhuma informação encontrada aqui tem qualquer garantia de servir a qualquer uso ou propósito específico.
 
 Por favor, esteja certo de que entende que as informações aqui encontradas são disponibilizadas de forma livre e gratuita, e de que não existe qualquer acordo ou contrato entre você e os proprietários e usuários deste sítio, os proprietários dos servidores onde ele é hospedado, os contribuidores individuais da Wikipédia, qualquer administrador ou operador de sistema do projeto ou qualquer outro indivíduo que esteja de   ligado a este projeto ou projetos correlatos, pelo que não responderão diretamente a qualquer alegação contra eles. É-lhe concedida uma licença limitada para copiar qualquer coisa deste sítio, mas isso não cria nem implica nenhuma obrigação contratual ou extracontratual da parte da Wikipédia, nem de nenhum dos seus agentes, membros, organizadores ou outros usuários.
 Qualquer uma das marcas registradas ou conceitos semelhantes que envolvam direitos autorais que sejam mencionados, usados ou citados nos artigos da Wikipédia são propriedades de seus respectivos donos. O seu uso aqui não implica que você possa utilizá-los com qualquer outro propósito que não o propósito informativo do autor original desses artigos da Wikipédia, sob o sistema de licenciamento CC-BY-SA e GFDL. Salvo quando especificado em contrário, os sítios da Wikipédia e da Wikimedia não são endossados nem afiliados a nenhum dos proprietários destes direitos e como tal a Wikipédia não pode conceder direitos de uso sobre nenhum material que tenha o seu uso restrito por direitos autorais ou conceitos semelhantes.   e não há   com respeito ao uso ou modificação dessas informações além da   (CC-BY-SA) e da  ; além disso, na Wikipédia, ninguém pode ser responsabilizado se alguém editar, modificar ou remover qualquer informação que você tenha contribuído para a Wikipédia ou qualquer dos projetos correlatos. .
 Por favor, note que as informações aqui encontradas podem violar as leis do país ou jurisdição de onde as está vendo. A Wikipédia não encoraja a violação de nenhuma lei, mas como as informações estão guardadas em servidores no Estado da Flórida nos Estados Unidos da América e em outros países da Europa, elas são mantidas pelas proteções garantidas a todos os cidadãos desses países. As leis do seu país podem não reconhecer uma proteção tão ampla à liberdade de expressão quanto as leis dos Estados Unidos, da Europa ou os princípios da ONU, e, deste modo, a Wikipédia não pode ser, de nenhum modo, responsável por uma eventual violação a essas leis, se você indicar ou usar alguma das informações nela contidas.
 Se você precisar de aconselhamento específico (por exemplo: médico, legal, financeiro etc.) por favor procure um profissional legalmente habilitado ou com conhecimentos sobre o assunto. 
 A Wikipédia pode conter artigos e elementos impróprios para menores de idade e que algumas religiões, conjuntos de princípios morais ou até mesmo leis de alguns países considerem impróprios sem nenhum aviso prévio. A Wikipédia não tem nenhuma responsabilidade sobre o controle de conteúdo que você e/ou seu filho, família ou quem quer que seja possa estar acessando, portanto recomenda-se que se utilize algum software específico de controle de conteúdo caso julgue necessário.
 . 
 Obrigado por dispor do seu tempo para ler atentamente esta página e desfrute da Wikipédia.


URL: https://af.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: Vir die Engelse  , sien gerus  
 Hierdie internet-  word uiteindelik deur die publiek self geskryf. Hoewel amper iedere bydraer tot die projek ernstig poog om korrekte inligting te verskaf, kan geen algemene waarborg daaroor gegee word nie. 'n Duidelike fout sal meestal vinnig duidelik word aan die andere deelnemers en sal daardeur ook reggestel word. Die algemene ontwikkeling gaan in die rigting van groter en meer korrekte bydraes, maar in individuele gevalle kan 'n terugval intree. Daar word egter deurgaans op vollediger en meer korrekte artikels gemik.
 U word aangeraai om naas hierdie ensiklopedie ook ander bronne en gespesialiseerde naslaanwerk te raadpleeg. Vergelyk daarnaas gerus die inhoud met ander ensiklopedieë of ander werke.
 As u dink dat daar wel 'n   is met die teks, verbeter dit gerus -   -   -   - plaas gerus 'n opmerking daaroor op die   wat by die bladsy hoort. 'n Ander moontlikheid is om die   te bekyk en na te gaan wie dit geskryf het en 'n opmerking op die betrokke outeur se besprekingsbladsy te maak.
 Die vrywilligers wat tot hierdie ensiklopedie bydra (dit is die publiek, en dus ook uself) aanvaar geen aanspreeklikheid vir die korrektheid van die gegewe inligting nie. Daar kan selfs nie gewaarborg word dat die outeurs/bydraers aan die artikels sorgvuldigheid in ag geneem het met die formulering van die artikels nie. Gebruik van die inligting is geheel en al vry, maar wel op eie risiko.
 Daar is gebruikers bekend as   wat oor ekstra gereedskap beskik op tegniese vlak betreffende hierdie webwerf. Dit sluit in die verwydering van bladsye, beveiliging van bladsye en die ontneem van skryfregte van gebruikers, deur hulle te blokkeer. Dit is moontlikhede waaroor gewone gebruikers nie beskik nie. Hierdie groep vrywilligers dien nie as die webmeesters nie, maar eerder as die opsieners van Wikipedia. Dit is 'n uitvoerende funksie waaroor hulle beskik. Die daaglikse bestuur van die Afrikaanse Wikipedia gaan in die praktyk uit van die gemeenskap van die Afrikaanse Wikipedia.
 Op regsvlak is die   die eindverantwoordelike party.
 As daar volgens u 'n probleem is, tree eerstens in kontak met die Afrikaanse Wikipedia. En as u 'n klag wil lê, is dit ook moontlik, in Engels, by:
 Al die tekstuele materiaal op Wikipedia val onder die  -lisensie. Indien u 'n stuk sien wat oorgeneem is van elders anders, sonder die toestemming van die kopiereghouer, meld dit dan aan, of verander die stuk self.
 Vir die afbeeldings, oudio, video en ander media op Wikipedia geld dat dit nie alles onder die  -lisensie val nie. Daar kan dus sekere beperkinge wees op die gebruik van sulke media. Die verantwoordelikheid lê dan by die gebruiker van Wikipedia om daarna op te let. Deur op 'n afbeelding of skakel na die beskrywingsblad van 'n ander mediastuk te klik, kan sekerheid verkry word rakende die voorwaardes vir die gebruik van die mediastuk. Indien daar nie melding gemaak word van die outeursregte nie, dan moet daar aangeneem word dat daar eksterne outeursregte op die mediastuk is.
 Sien hiervoor: {{ }} (onlangs na Afrikaans vertaal).


URL: https://als.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Impressum

Content: Abieter vo derre Internetsite isch d  , ytrait bim   under de Nummere N03000005323. D Wikimedia Foundation isch e Stiftig noch em Rächt vom  -Bundesstaat  . Verantwortligi Asprächperson und   im Sinn vom   isch zur Zit d  .
 Bi Froge und Interview-Wünsch chönnet Ihr euch uff informäller Basis au gern an di aktive alemannischsprochige Nutzer wände. Details findsch au uff de Site  .
 D   isch e freii  , wo under de   im Internet under   z finde isch. Meh erfahrsch  .
 D   sin keini offiziälle Verträtter vom Internetsite-Abieter, sondern numme Nutzer, wo erwiterti technischi Mögligkeite hän. Sälli Persone hälfe normalerwis gern und schnäll bi eventuälle Froge oder Beastandige, sin aber nit für d Netzsite verantwortlig.
 Jede Nutzer isch für Byträg, wo-n-er erstellt, sälber in vollem Umfang verantwortlig. Praktisch jede Inhalt cha durch jede verändert werre. Werch, wo under em Verdacht stönn, Urheberrächt oder Verwertigsrächt z verletze, chönne jederzit ohni Rucksproch korrigiert bzw. glöscht werre. E Usschluss vo einzelne Nutzer bhaltet sich de Abieter vor.
 D Nutzer sin uffgrüefe, alli Inhalt, wo si zu derre Internetsite bystüre, noch em beste Wille z erstelle. Weder de Abieter no di einzelne Nutzer erhebe aber Aspruch uff Vollständigkeit, Aktualität, Qualität und Richtigkeit. S cha sällewäg kei Verantwortig für Schäde übernoh werre, wo durch s Vertraue uff d Inhalt vo derre Internetsite oder Gebruch devo entstönn.
 De Abieter erlaubt di kommerziälli Verwändig und Witergab vo de Date uss de Wikipedia under de  , lüeg au  .
 De Abieter vo de Internetsite wyst uff allne Ygabesite druff hii, kei Material z verwände, wo Urheberrächt vo Dritte underlit. Bi de große Zahl vo de elektronische und vor allem schriftlige Publikatione, wo s uff de Wikipedia hät, chann er aber nit usschließe, dass vo de Nutzer einewäg Material ybrocht wird, wo Schutzrächt verletzt, und dass säll nit sofort erkännt wird.
 Wenn im Abieter e entsprächendi Urheberrächtsverletzig azeigt wird, no wird s Material, wo s betrifft, so schnäll wie möglig vom Server gnoh. Offiziälle Asprächpartner für so Fäll isch de   vo de Wikipedia, wo noch em US-amerikanische Rächt bstimmt wird.
 Alternativ chönnet Ihr Euch uff informäller Basis au an di aktive alemannischsprochige Nutzer wände. Ihr erreichet sälli über d Site  .


URL: https://ca.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viquip%C3%A8dia:Av%C3%ADs_d%27exempci%C3%B3_de_responsabilitat

Content: La   és una enciclopèdia col·laborativa de contingut obert en línia, és a dir, una associació voluntària d'individus i grups que estan desenvolupant un recurs comú de coneixement humà. L'estructura del projecte permet a qualsevol amb una connexió d'Internet canviar el seu contingut. Tingueu en compte que res del que aquí s'hi troba no ha estat validat necessàriament per professionals amb la perícia que s'exigeix per donar la informació completa, acurada o fiable.
 Això no vol dir que no trobareu a la Viquipèdia informació valuosa i acurada, al contrari, la major part ho és. Tanmateix,  . El contingut actual de qualsevol article pot ser que s'hagi canviat, vandalitzat o alterat per algú l'opinió del qual no es correspon amb l'estat de coneixement en els camps pertinents.
 Contínuament treballem en maneres de seleccionar i destacar versions fiables d'articles. La nostra comunitat disposa d'eines de supervisió com els   i l'anàlisi de   per controlar continguts nous i canviants. En qualsevol cas, la   no és revisada uniformement per grups d'experts; i, encara que els lectors poden corregir errors o participar en grups informals d'avaluació, no tenen cap obligació legal de fer-ho i per tant tota la informació llegida aquí es fa sense cap garantia per a cap propòsit o ús en absolut. Fins i tot articles que han estat revisats per lectures informals d'avaluació o els   poden haver estat editats més tard inadequadament, just abans que els vegeu. 
 
 Si us plau, assegureu-vos d'entendre que la informació que es proporciona aquí es dóna de franc, i que no es crea cap classe d'acord o contracte entre vós i els propietaris o usuaris d'aquest lloc, els propietaris dels servidors, els col·laboradors de la Viquipèdia, qualsevol administrador del projecte, sysops o qualsevulla lligat amb aquest projecte o projectes germans està subjecte a les vostres reclamacions dirigides contra ells. Us donam una llicència limitada de copiar tot el que hi ha en aquest lloc; això no crea ni implica cap responsabilitat contractual o extracontractual per part de Viquipèdia o qualsevol dels seus agents, membres, organitzadors o uns altres usuaris.
 No hi ha   quant al seu ús o modificació de la informació més enllà de la   (CC-BY-SA) o la   (GFDL); ningú a la Viquipèdia és responsable del fet que algú canvii, editi, modifiqui o tregui qualsevol informació que hàgiu posat a la Viquipèdia o qualsevol dels seus projectes associats.
 Qualsevol de les marques registrades, marques comercials, drets de disseny, drets personals o drets similars que s'esmenten, s'utilitzen o se citen als articles de l'enciclopèdia Viquipèdia són propietat dels seus respectius propietaris. El seu ús aquí no implica que els pugueu utilitzar per a cap altre propòsit que per aquell ús, o un ús informatiu similar, al contemplat pels autors originals d'aquests articles a la Viquipèdia sota l'esquema d'autorització de GFDL. Llevat que es manifesti explícitament, els llocs de Viquipèdia o Wikimedia no donen suport ni estan associats amb cap dels titulars de qualsevol d'aquests drets, i com a tal la Viquipèdia no es pot concedir cap dret per utilitzar cap material protegit. El vostre ús de qualsevol propietat intel·lectual o similar és sota la vostra pròpia responsabilitat.
 La publicació de la informació trobada a la Viquipèdia podria violar les lleis del vostre país o jurisdicció des del que accediu. La base de dades de la Viquipèdia s'emmagatzema en un servidor a l'Estat de   als  , i es conserva en remissió a la protecció que permet la Llei local i federal. La Llei del vostre país o jurisdicció podria no protegir o permetre la mateixa llibertat d'expressió o de distribució. La Viquipèdia no promou la violació de cap llei; i no es pot fer responsable de cap violació d'aquestes lleis tant si enllaceu amb aquest lloc o si useu, reproduïu o publiqueu la informació continguda aquí.
 Si heu de menester assessorament específic (per exemple, mèdic, legal, financer, o de gestió de riscs) si us plau, cercau un professional que hagi estat llicenciat o que tingui els coneixements en l'àrea en qüestió.
 


URL: https://ro.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Avertisment_general

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 W  N  G  V  A  S 
  este o enciclopedie online cu conținut deschis, adică o asociație de indivizi și grupuri bazată pe voluntariat care dezvoltă împreună o resursă de cunoștințe umane. Structura sa permite oricărui individ cu o conexiune la Internet și un browser să editeze informația găsită aici. De aceea trebuie să rețineți că nimic nu este în mod necesar revizuit de profesioniști bine documentați în diverse domenii particulare, astfel încât vreo informație de pe   să devină în mod garantat completă, precisă sau demnă de încredere.
 Asta nu înseamnă că nu veți găsi multă informație de preț și precisă la  ; totuși, luați în considerare faptul că  . S-ar putea să fi fost modificată recent, vandalizată de cineva, a cărui opinie nu corespunde statutului de cunoștințe din zona particulară de care sunteți interesat(ă). Lucrăm la modalități de a alege și de a aproba cele mai de încredere articole, totuși, fără garanție. Cea mai bună listă de articole de încredere se găsește la  , dar chiar și articolele listate acolo s-ar putea să fi fost editate fără milă, cu scurt timp înainte de a le vedea dvs.
 Vă rugăm să vă asigurați că ați înțeles că informația oferită aici este liberă și gratuită și că nici un fel de înțelegere sau contract nu este creat între dvs. și proprietarii acestui sit, proprietarii serverelor pe care este găzduit acesta, contribuitorii individuali pe  , administratorii proiectului, dezvoltatorii sau oricine altcineva care este în   de acest proiect, pentru a revendica articolele în mod direct. Vă este garantată o licență limitată de a copia din acest sit; aceasta nu creează sau implică nici o răspundere contractuală sau extracontractuală din partea   sau vreunui agent, membru organizator sau alt fel de utilizator al acesteia.
 Orice mărci de fabrică, mărci de serviciu, mărci colective, drepturi de design, drepturi de personalitate sau alte drepturi similare care sunt menționate, folosite sau citate în articolele enciclopediei Wikipedia sunt proprietatea respectivilor posesori. Folosirea lor aici nu implică faptul că dvs. ați putea să le utilizați cu orice scop - altul decât unul similar, adică informațional, precum au considerat autorii originali ai acestor articole Wikipedia sub schema de licență GFDL. Dacă nu este precizat altfel, siturile Wikipedia și Wikimedia nu subscriu și nu sunt afiliate cu nici unul dintre deținătorii unor asemnea drepturi și astfel Wikipedia nu poate garanta nici un drept pentru folosirea vreunui material protejat.  
 Vă rugăm să luați în considerare faptul că informația găsită aici poate viola legile și jurisdicția țării din care dvs. accesați informația.   nu încurajează violarea nici unei legi, dar ținând cont că această informație este stocată pe un server din statul  , în  , aceasta este menținută în concordanță cu protecția oferită tuturor de către   al   și sub principiile   a  . Legile din țara dvs. s-ar putea să nu recunoască o protecție a dreptului la liberă exprimare atât de amplă ca legile Statelor Unite și principiile Cartei ONU, așadar   nu poate fi responsabilă pentru nicio violare potențială a unor asemenea legi, în cazul în care vă conectați la proiect sau folosiți orice informație din acesta, conținută în orice fel.
 , de vreme ce este o asociație de indivizi bazată pe voluntariat dezvoltată liber, pentru a crea diverse resurse educaționale, culturale și informaționale online de tip open source ( ).   și   privind folosirea și modificarea acestei informații în afara licenței  . Nimeni de la   nu este responsabil de informația pe care dvs. o trimiteți la   sau orice alt proiect (cu alte cuvinte, prin faptul că trimiteți informație în vreunul din aceste proiecte acceptați în mod implicit faptul că oricine poate să schimbe, editeze sau elimine informația respectivă).
 Utilizarea Wikipediei este supusă termenilor de utilizare definiți pe   . Pe Wikipedia se aplică doar două legislații: legislația statului California și legislația federală a Statelor Unite ale Americii. Orice litigiu juridic va fi rezolvat în San Francisco County, California. Amenințările cu plângerea penală sau darea în judecată adresate unui redactor al Wikipedia vor conduce la blocarea pe termen nedefinit. Asta nu înseamnă că Wikipedia v-ar putea priva de drepturile dvs. legale, dar veți fi blocat dacă lăsați să se înțeleagă că doriți să rezolvați conflictele cu alți redactori în mod juridic (penal și/sau civil).
 Fundația Wikimedia are statut de  , deci nu va răspunde civil sau penal pentru daunele produse de redactorii Wikipediei. Fundația Wikimedia nu se supune legislației vreunei țări europene, de aceea dreptul european este irelevant în funcționarea Wikipediei. Sigur, orice redactor are obligația să respecte legislația din statul în care se află. De exemplu, un editor polonez care scrie în engleză pe Wikipedia în timp ce se află în Pakistan are obligația de a respecta legislația pakistaneză.
 Legislația europeană în materie de drepturi de autor are relevanță pentru Wikipedia doar în măsura în care este recunoscută și aplicată de Statele Unite ale Americii. De exemplu,   de Abd-ru-shin este în domeniul public în Uniunea Europeană, dar nu și în Statele Unite ale Americii (drepturile de autor au fost restaurate în SUA de Uruguay Round Agreements Act).
 Deoarece se aplică legislația americană, wikipediștii au dreptul să aplice utilizarea cinstită ( ) în editările lor de pe Wikipedia, indiferent de ce-ar zice legislația românească în această privință. După cum am spus mai sus, wikipediștii aflați în România trebuie să respecte legislația românească (asta nu e problema Wikipediei, ci este problema lor personală).
 Administratorii Wikipediei   au obligația de a aplica legile României, este pur și simplu o problemă care nu-i privește. Există un precedent:   . Un wikipedist elvețian, care nu este supus legilor franceze, a anulat ștergerea informațiilor dispusă de serviciul secret francez.
 Un administrator silit să aleagă între respectarea principiilor impuse de Fundația Wikimedia și respectarea legislației românești trebuie să-și dea demisia, pentru a rezolva astfel acest   între datoria lui drept cetățean al României și datoria lui față de Comunitatea Wikipediei.
 Wikipedia în limba română nu este website românesc și nu are nicio obligație de a respecta legile românești.
 Mulțumim pentru că ați folosit din timpul dvs. ca să citiți acestă pagină și vă dorim să savurați experiența dvs. la  . Puteți continua turul pe ro.wiki cu  . 
 
  
•   
•   
•   
•   
•  
•   
•  
•  
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•   
•  
•   
•   
•   
•   
•  
•  
•  
•  
•   
•   
•   
•  
•   
•   
•   
•   
•  
•   
•   
•  
•  
•  
•   


URL: https://als.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Impressum

Content: Abieter vo derre Internetsite isch d  , ytrait bim   under de Nummere N03000005323. D Wikimedia Foundation isch e Stiftig noch em Rächt vom  -Bundesstaat  . Verantwortligi Asprächperson und   im Sinn vom   isch zur Zit d  .
 Bi Froge und Interview-Wünsch chönnet Ihr euch uff informäller Basis au gern an di aktive alemannischsprochige Nutzer wände. Details findsch au uff de Site  .
 D   isch e freii  , wo under de   im Internet under   z finde isch. Meh erfahrsch  .
 D   sin keini offiziälle Verträtter vom Internetsite-Abieter, sondern numme Nutzer, wo erwiterti technischi Mögligkeite hän. Sälli Persone hälfe normalerwis gern und schnäll bi eventuälle Froge oder Beastandige, sin aber nit für d Netzsite verantwortlig.
 Jede Nutzer isch für Byträg, wo-n-er erstellt, sälber in vollem Umfang verantwortlig. Praktisch jede Inhalt cha durch jede verändert werre. Werch, wo under em Verdacht stönn, Urheberrächt oder Verwertigsrächt z verletze, chönne jederzit ohni Rucksproch korrigiert bzw. glöscht werre. E Usschluss vo einzelne Nutzer bhaltet sich de Abieter vor.
 D Nutzer sin uffgrüefe, alli Inhalt, wo si zu derre Internetsite bystüre, noch em beste Wille z erstelle. Weder de Abieter no di einzelne Nutzer erhebe aber Aspruch uff Vollständigkeit, Aktualität, Qualität und Richtigkeit. S cha sällewäg kei Verantwortig für Schäde übernoh werre, wo durch s Vertraue uff d Inhalt vo derre Internetsite oder Gebruch devo entstönn.
 De Abieter erlaubt di kommerziälli Verwändig und Witergab vo de Date uss de Wikipedia under de  , lüeg au  .
 De Abieter vo de Internetsite wyst uff allne Ygabesite druff hii, kei Material z verwände, wo Urheberrächt vo Dritte underlit. Bi de große Zahl vo de elektronische und vor allem schriftlige Publikatione, wo s uff de Wikipedia hät, chann er aber nit usschließe, dass vo de Nutzer einewäg Material ybrocht wird, wo Schutzrächt verletzt, und dass säll nit sofort erkännt wird.
 Wenn im Abieter e entsprächendi Urheberrächtsverletzig azeigt wird, no wird s Material, wo s betrifft, so schnäll wie möglig vom Server gnoh. Offiziälle Asprächpartner für so Fäll isch de   vo de Wikipedia, wo noch em US-amerikanische Rächt bstimmt wird.
 Alternativ chönnet Ihr Euch uff informäller Basis au an di aktive alemannischsprochige Nutzer wände. Ihr erreichet sälli über d Site  .


URL: https://cs.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedie:Vylou%C4%8Den%C3%AD_odpov%C4%9Bdnosti

Content: 
 
  je otevřená internetová encyklopedie, tzn. seskupení dobrovolníků, kteří vytvářejí databázi lidského vědění. Její principy dovolují komukoli s připojením k Internetu a webovým prohlížečem měnit její obsah. Proto je třeba upozornit, že nic, co zde naleznete, nemuselo být zkontrolováno a nemusí obsahovat úplné, přesné či spolehlivé informace.
 To neznamená, že ve Wikipedii nemůžete najít hodnotné a přesné informace, ale je třeba si uvědomit, že Wikipedie nemůže žádným způsobem ručit za přesnost informací v ní uvedených. Tyto informace mohl změnit či poškodit někdo, jehož názory se neshodují s aktuálním stavem znalostí oboru, o kterém se chcete něco dozvědět. Snažíme se vytvořit metody, jak vybírat a nabízet nejspolehlivější verze článků. Momentálně nabízí nejbližší podobné schopnosti stránka  , ale i články zde uvedené mohly být nevhodně změněny těsně před tím, než si je prohlédnete.
 
 Pochopte prosím, že informace zde nabízené jsou poskytovány zdarma a neexistuje žádná smlouva mezi vámi a majiteli či uživateli těchto stránek, vlastníky serverů, na kterých běží, jednotlivými přispěvateli, správci, či jakoukoli jinou osobou spojenou s Wikipedií.
 Uvědomte si prosím, že informace zde uvedené mohou porušovat zákony země, ze které si je prohlížíte. Wikipedie nepodporuje porušování zákonů, ale obsah Wikipedie je uložen na serverech umístěných ve  , kde je právo na zveřejňování informací chráněno Prvním dodatkem ústavy Spojených států a principy    . Zákony vaší země nemusí poskytovat tak širokou ochranu svobody slova, takže Wikipedie nemůže zodpovídat za případná porušení příslušných zákonů.
 
 Děkujeme za váš čas strávený čtením této stránky a přejeme vám příjemné používání Wikipedie.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Wikipedia%3AGeneral+disclaimer

Content: edits articles recent contributors

URL: https://ar.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%D9%8A%D9%83%D9%8A%D8%A8%D9%8A%D8%AF%D9%8A%D8%A7:%D8%A5%D8%AE%D9%84%D8%A7%D8%A1_%D9%85%D8%B3%D8%A4%D9%88%D9%84%D9%8A%D8%A9_%D8%B9%D8%A7%D9%85

Content: ويكيبيديا هي موسوعة إنترنت تعاونية  ، وهي شراكة بين المتطوعين الأفراد والمجموعات والذين يعملون على تطوير مصدر معرفي بشري عام. تسمح بنية المشروع لكل شخصٍ مُتصل بالإنترنت أن يُعدل المحتوى. يرجى منك أن تعلم أنه لا شيء في هذا المشروع يُلزم أن تكون قد تمت مراجعته من أهل الخبرة المؤهلين لتزويدك بمعلومات معتمدة أو دقيقة أو كاملة.
 لا يعني هذا أنك لن تجد معلومات قيمة ودقيقة في ويكيبيديا، بل ستجد الكثير منها، ولكن على الرغم من هذا إلا أنَّ  ، حيثُ إنّ محتوى كل مقالة قد يكون عُدل مؤخرًا أو   أو غُيِّر بواسطة أفراد لا تتطابق آراؤهم مع النصوص المعرفية في المجالات المتعلقة بالمقالة. لاحظ أنّ أكثر الموسوعات والمراجع تحتوي إخلاء مسؤولية أيضًا.
 يستعمل محررو   النشطون أدوات مثل تغذيات   و  لمراقبة تعديلات المحتوى والمحتوى الجديد، وعلى الرغم من هذا إلا أنَّ ويكيبيديا لا تحتوي على مراجعة أقران رسمية، حيث أنَّ القراء قد يصححون الأخطاء أو يشتركون في  ، ولكن ليس إجبارًا عليهم القيام بذلك وبالتالي جميع المعلومات هنا لا تمتلك أي ضمانات دائمًا إطلاقًا، وحتى المقالات التي تمت مراجعتها عبر مراجعة أقران رسمية أو هي  ، إلا أنه قد يطرأ عليها تعديل غير مناسب قبل أن تقرأها بقليل.
 
 يُرجى العلم بأن المعلومات هنا تُقدم بشكلٍ حر، وأنه لا يوجد عقد بينك وبين مستخدمي أو مسؤولي هذا الموقع أو مسؤولي الخوادم التي تستضيف معلومات الموقع، ولا الأفراد المساهمين ولا إداريي المشاريع ولا مشغلي النظام، ولا كل من له صلة بهذا المشروع  ، ولا بالمشاريع الشقيقة، كما أنهم ليسوا عرضة لادعاءاتك المباشرة ضدهم. لك رخصة محدودة بنسخ أي شيء من هذا الموقع، ولا تدل هذه الرخصة تصريحًا أو تلميحًا على أي التزام تعاقدي أو غير تعاقدي من جهة ويكيبيديا أو أحد وكلائها أو أعضائها أو منظميها أو مستخدمين آخرين.
 فيما يتعلق باستعمالك أو تعديلك للمعلومات، فإنه   إلا وفقًا   (CC-BY-SA) و  (GFDL)، كما أنه لا يتحمل أي شخص في ويكيبيديا مسؤولية تغيير أو تنقيح أو تعديل أو حذف معلومات قد تنشرها أنت على ويكيبيديا أو أي من المشاريع المرتبطة بها.
 كل علامة تجارية أو علامة خدمة أو علامة جماعية أو حقوق تصميم وما يشابهها من الحقوق المُشار إليها أو المستعملة أو المُستشهد بها في مقالات ويكيبيديا هي ملك لأصحابها بالكامل، ولا يستلزم ذلك أنه يجوز لك أن تستعملها لأي غرض غير الاستعمال المعلوماتي المماثل أو المشابه لما كان يقصده المؤلفون الأصليون لهذه المقالات في ويكيبيديا وفقًا لرخصة المشاع الإبداعي النسبة-الترخيص بالمثل 3.0 (CC-BY-SA) ورخصة جنو للوثائق الحرة (GFDL). لا يمكن لمواقع ويكيبيديا وويكيميديا منح تأييد من أصحاب مثل هذه الحقوق ولا المشاركة معهم، وكذلك ليس لويكيبيديا أن تمنح حقوق استعمال المواد المحمية إلا طبقًا للرخص المذكورة. استخدامك لأي من هذه المواد أو ما يُماثلها يكون على مسؤوليتك الخاصة.
 تحتوي ويكيبيديا على مواد قد تظهر فيها صور أشخاص يمكن التعرف عليهم سواءً كانوا أحياء أو قد توفوا مؤخرًا. إنَّ استعمال صور الأحياء أو الذين توفوا مؤخرًا، جميعها مقيدة وفق ضوابط   في بعض النُظم القضائية، وذلك بمعزل عن حالة حقوق النشر الخاصة بها. قبل استعمال هذه الأنواع من المحتوى، يُرجى منك التأكد من حصولك على حق استعمالها وفقًا للقانون الذي يتطابق مع الظروف المطلوبة لاستعمالك.  .
 قد تقرأ في ويكيبيديا معلومات وأنت في دولة أو بعض المناطق التي لا تجيز نشر مثل هذه المعلومات. يجب أن تعلم أنَّ قاعدة بيانات ويكيبيديا موجودة في الولايات المتحدة الأمريكية، ويُحافظ عليها بموجب الحماية التي تسمح بها القوانين المحلية والفدرالية هناك. القوانين التي في دولتك أو بعض مناطقها قد لا تحمي أو لا تسمح بمثل هذه الأنواع من المواد أو التوزيع. لا تشجع ويكيبيديا على خرق القوانين، ولا يمكنها أن تتحمل مسؤولية أي خروقات لهذه القوانين.
 إذا احتجت إلى مشورة اختصاصية (مثل مشورة طبية أو قانونية أو مالية أو إدارة مخاطر)، فيرجى منك أن تطلبها من أهل الاختصاص المرخصين أو المعروفين في مجالهم.


URL: https://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%8F:%D0%9E%D1%82%D0%BA%D0%B0%D0%B7_%D0%BE%D1%82_%D0%BE%D1%82%D0%B2%D0%B5%D1%82%D1%81%D1%82%D0%B2%D0%B5%D0%BD%D0%BD%D0%BE%D1%81%D1%82%D0%B8

Content: 
 Википедия — совместно создаваемая онлайн-энциклопедия под свободной лицензией, то есть добровольное сообщество людей и групп, создающих общее хранилище человеческих знаний. Устройство Википедии позволяет любому, кто имеет доступ в Интернет, менять её содержимое. Поэтому, пожалуйста, примите во внимание, что приведённые здесь сведения не обязательно были проверены профессионалами, обладающими знаниями, необходимыми для предоставления вам полной, точной или заслуживающей доверия информации.
 Нельзя сказать, что в Википедии не так уж много полезной и точной информации — большая часть информации такова. Однако вы должны сознавать, что  . Содержимое любой статьи могло быть недавно изменено, испорчено или искажено кем-либо, чьё мнение не соответствует состоянию знаний в соответствующей области. 
 Наше активное сообщество редакторов использует такие инструменты как страницы « » и « » для отслеживания создания и изменения содержимого. Тем не менее, Википедия не имеет равномерного рецензирования. Хотя читатели могут исправлять ошибки или участвовать в нерегулярной  , у них нет обязанности это делать, и поэтому любая информация в Википедии не содержит каких-либо подразумеваемых гарантий пригодности для каких-либо целей или применений. Даже статьи, которые были подвергнуты неформальной экспертной оценке или  , могут быть отредактированы ненадлежащим образом непосредственно перед вашим посещением.
 
 Пожалуйста, убедитесь, что вы понимаете, что вся информация, находящаяся здесь, предоставлена бесплатно, как акт доброй воли, без заключения каких-либо договорённостей или договоров между вами и владельцами или пользователями данного сайта, владельцами серверов, на которых он размещён, отдельными редакторами Википедии, администраторами проекта, системными администраторами либо кем-то ещё,   с этим или родственными проектами, кто может стать предметом прямых претензий. Вам предоставляется ограниченное право копировать содержимое этого сайта — данное право не предусматривает и не подразумевает никакой договорной или иной ответственности за любую часть Википедии или её агентов, участников, организаторов или других пользователей.
 Не существует   относительно использования или изменений информации, за пределами лицензий   (CC BY-SA) и   (GFDL). Также никто в Википедии не несёт ответственности за изменение, редактирование, модификацию или удаление любой информации, которую вы можете опубликовать в Википедии или любом из связанных с ней проектов.
 Любые торговые марки, товарные и коллективные знаки, права на дизайн или аналогичные права, которые упоминаются, используются или цитируются в статьях, принадлежат их законным владельцам. Их использование здесь не даёт вам право на любое другое использование, кроме предусмотренного авторами статей Википедии в соответствии со схемой лицензирования CC BY-SA и GFDL. Если не указано иное, Википедия и сайты Фонда Викимедиа никак не связаны с правообладателями, и поэтому Википедия не может распоряжаться правами на использование материалов, защищённых авторским правом. Вы сами несёте ответственность за использование этих и подобных материалов.
 Википедия содержит материалы, которые могут изображать человека, которого можно по ним опознать, в том числе живущего или недавно умершего. Использование изображений живых или недавно умерших людей в некоторых юрисдикциях ограничено законами, касающимися прав личности, независимо от состояния их авторских прав. Прежде чем использовать эти типы материалов, убедитесь, что у вас есть право использовать их в соответствии с законами, которые применяются в обстоятельствах вашего предполагаемого использования.  
 Обратите внимание, что распространение информации, размещённой в Википедии, может являться нарушением законов той страны, в которой вы просматриваете этот сайт. База данных Википедии хранится на серверах, расположенных в  , и поддерживается в соответствии с мерами защиты, предусмотренными местным и федеральным законодательством этой страны. Законы вашей страны или юрисдикции могут не защищать или не допускать такие же виды высказывания или распространения. Википедия не поощряет нарушение каких-либо законов и не может нести ответственности за любые потенциальные нарушения этих законов вами при публикации ссылок на этот сайт или другом использовании, воспроизведении и публикации любой содержащейся здесь информации.
 Если вам нужен совет специалиста (например, в области медицины, права, финансов или управления рисками), пожалуйста, обратитесь к профессионалам за пределами Википедии, имеющим лицензию или сертификат и знания в данной области.


URL: https://ar.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%D9%8A%D9%83%D9%8A%D8%A8%D9%8A%D8%AF%D9%8A%D8%A7:%D8%A5%D8%AE%D9%84%D8%A7%D8%A1_%D9%85%D8%B3%D8%A4%D9%88%D9%84%D9%8A%D8%A9_%D8%B9%D8%A7%D9%85

Content: ويكيبيديا هي موسوعة إنترنت تعاونية  ، وهي شراكة بين المتطوعين الأفراد والمجموعات والذين يعملون على تطوير مصدر معرفي بشري عام. تسمح بنية المشروع لكل شخصٍ مُتصل بالإنترنت أن يُعدل المحتوى. يرجى منك أن تعلم أنه لا شيء في هذا المشروع يُلزم أن تكون قد تمت مراجعته من أهل الخبرة المؤهلين لتزويدك بمعلومات معتمدة أو دقيقة أو كاملة.
 لا يعني هذا أنك لن تجد معلومات قيمة ودقيقة في ويكيبيديا، بل ستجد الكثير منها، ولكن على الرغم من هذا إلا أنَّ  ، حيثُ إنّ محتوى كل مقالة قد يكون عُدل مؤخرًا أو   أو غُيِّر بواسطة أفراد لا تتطابق آراؤهم مع النصوص المعرفية في المجالات المتعلقة بالمقالة. لاحظ أنّ أكثر الموسوعات والمراجع تحتوي إخلاء مسؤولية أيضًا.
 يستعمل محررو   النشطون أدوات مثل تغذيات   و  لمراقبة تعديلات المحتوى والمحتوى الجديد، وعلى الرغم من هذا إلا أنَّ ويكيبيديا لا تحتوي على مراجعة أقران رسمية، حيث أنَّ القراء قد يصححون الأخطاء أو يشتركون في  ، ولكن ليس إجبارًا عليهم القيام بذلك وبالتالي جميع المعلومات هنا لا تمتلك أي ضمانات دائمًا إطلاقًا، وحتى المقالات التي تمت مراجعتها عبر مراجعة أقران رسمية أو هي  ، إلا أنه قد يطرأ عليها تعديل غير مناسب قبل أن تقرأها بقليل.
 
 يُرجى العلم بأن المعلومات هنا تُقدم بشكلٍ حر، وأنه لا يوجد عقد بينك وبين مستخدمي أو مسؤولي هذا الموقع أو مسؤولي الخوادم التي تستضيف معلومات الموقع، ولا الأفراد المساهمين ولا إداريي المشاريع ولا مشغلي النظام، ولا كل من له صلة بهذا المشروع  ، ولا بالمشاريع الشقيقة، كما أنهم ليسوا عرضة لادعاءاتك المباشرة ضدهم. لك رخصة محدودة بنسخ أي شيء من هذا الموقع، ولا تدل هذه الرخصة تصريحًا أو تلميحًا على أي التزام تعاقدي أو غير تعاقدي من جهة ويكيبيديا أو أحد وكلائها أو أعضائها أو منظميها أو مستخدمين آخرين.
 فيما يتعلق باستعمالك أو تعديلك للمعلومات، فإنه   إلا وفقًا   (CC-BY-SA) و  (GFDL)، كما أنه لا يتحمل أي شخص في ويكيبيديا مسؤولية تغيير أو تنقيح أو تعديل أو حذف معلومات قد تنشرها أنت على ويكيبيديا أو أي من المشاريع المرتبطة بها.
 كل علامة تجارية أو علامة خدمة أو علامة جماعية أو حقوق تصميم وما يشابهها من الحقوق المُشار إليها أو المستعملة أو المُستشهد بها في مقالات ويكيبيديا هي ملك لأصحابها بالكامل، ولا يستلزم ذلك أنه يجوز لك أن تستعملها لأي غرض غير الاستعمال المعلوماتي المماثل أو المشابه لما كان يقصده المؤلفون الأصليون لهذه المقالات في ويكيبيديا وفقًا لرخصة المشاع الإبداعي النسبة-الترخيص بالمثل 3.0 (CC-BY-SA) ورخصة جنو للوثائق الحرة (GFDL). لا يمكن لمواقع ويكيبيديا وويكيميديا منح تأييد من أصحاب مثل هذه الحقوق ولا المشاركة معهم، وكذلك ليس لويكيبيديا أن تمنح حقوق استعمال المواد المحمية إلا طبقًا للرخص المذكورة. استخدامك لأي من هذه المواد أو ما يُماثلها يكون على مسؤوليتك الخاصة.
 تحتوي ويكيبيديا على مواد قد تظهر فيها صور أشخاص يمكن التعرف عليهم سواءً كانوا أحياء أو قد توفوا مؤخرًا. إنَّ استعمال صور الأحياء أو الذين توفوا مؤخرًا، جميعها مقيدة وفق ضوابط   في بعض النُظم القضائية، وذلك بمعزل عن حالة حقوق النشر الخاصة بها. قبل استعمال هذه الأنواع من المحتوى، يُرجى منك التأكد من حصولك على حق استعمالها وفقًا للقانون الذي يتطابق مع الظروف المطلوبة لاستعمالك.  .
 قد تقرأ في ويكيبيديا معلومات وأنت في دولة أو بعض المناطق التي لا تجيز نشر مثل هذه المعلومات. يجب أن تعلم أنَّ قاعدة بيانات ويكيبيديا موجودة في الولايات المتحدة الأمريكية، ويُحافظ عليها بموجب الحماية التي تسمح بها القوانين المحلية والفدرالية هناك. القوانين التي في دولتك أو بعض مناطقها قد لا تحمي أو لا تسمح بمثل هذه الأنواع من المواد أو التوزيع. لا تشجع ويكيبيديا على خرق القوانين، ولا يمكنها أن تتحمل مسؤولية أي خروقات لهذه القوانين.
 إذا احتجت إلى مشورة اختصاصية (مثل مشورة طبية أو قانونية أو مالية أو إدارة مخاطر)، فيرجى منك أن تطلبها من أهل الاختصاص المرخصين أو المعروفين في مجالهم.


URL: https://ny.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 Wikipedia ndi encyclopedia yogwirizana yowonjezera; ndiko kuti, mgwirizano wodzipereka wa anthu ndi magulu omwe akugwira ntchito kuti apange chidziwitso chodziwika cha chidziwitso chaumunthu. Mapangidwe a polojekiti amalola aliyense amene ali ndi intaneti kuti asinthe zomwe zili. Chonde adzalangizidwe kuti palibe chomwe chinapezedwa pano chikuwerengedweratu ndi anthu omwe ali ndi luso lofunikanso kukupatsani chidziwitso chokwanira, cholondola kapena chodalirika.
 Izi sizikutanthauza kuti simungapeze zambiri zamtengo wapatali mu Wikipedia; nthawi yambiri yomwe mukufuna. Komabe,   Zomwe zili m'nkhani iliyonse yapitayi zangosinthidwa, zowonongeka kapena zosinthidwa ndi munthu amene maganizo ake sagwirizana ndi chidziwitso m'madera oyenera . Tawonani kuti ambiri encyclopedia ndi zolemba zina  .
 Gulu lathu lothandizira la olemba ntchito amagwiritsa ntchito zipangizo monga   ndi   amadyetsa kuyang'anira zatsopano ndi zosintha. Komabe, Wikipedia sichiwerengedwanso  ; pamene owerenga akhoza kukonza zolakwa kapena kuchita zosawerengeka  
 
 Chonde onetsetsani kuti mumvetsetsa kuti mfundo zomwe zili pano zikuperekedwa momasuka, komanso kuti palibe mgwirizano kapena mgwirizano womwe umapangidwa pakati pa inu ndi eni kapena ogwiritsira ntchito tsamba ili, eni eni omwe amapereka malowa, munthu Wikipedia ikuthandizira, oyang'anira ntchito iliyonse, sysops kapena wina aliyense amene ali   ndi polojekitiyi kapena ntchito za alongo malinga ndi zomwe mukuzinena motsutsana nawo. Mukupatsidwa chilolezo chochepa chokopera chirichonse pa tsamba ili; sichilenga kapena kutanthawuza udindo uliwonse kapena wodalirika wogwira ntchito pa Wikipedia kapena aliwonse ake, mamembala, okonzekera kapena othandizira ena.
 Pali 'palibe' mgwirizano kapena kumvetsetsa pakati pa inu ndi Wikipedia  
 Zina mwa zizindikiro, zizindikiro zapadera, zizindikiro zapadera, ufulu wolinganiza kapena ufulu wofanana womwe ukutchulidwa, wogwiritsidwa ntchito kapena wotchulidwa m'nkhani za Wikipedia encyclopedia ndizo za eni ake. Kugwiritsa ntchito kwawo pano sikukutanthauza kuti mungagwiritse ntchito pazinthu zina osati zofanana kapena zofanana ndizo zomwe zimagwiritsidwa ntchito ndi olemba oyambirira a ma Wikipedia awa pansi pa CC-BY-SA ndi GFDL. Pokhapokha ngati zinalembedwa pa Wikipedia ndi Wikimedia sites sichivomerezedwa ndizinthu zogwirizana ndi aliyense amene ali ndi ufulu woterewu ndipo Wikipedia silingapereke ufulu uliwonse kugwiritsa ntchito zipangizo zina zotetezedwa. Kugwiritsira ntchito kwanu kapena malo omwewo osapangidwira ali pangozi yanu.
 Wikipedia ili ndi zinthu zomwe zingasonyeze munthu wodziwika yemwe ali wamoyo kapena wakufa posachedwapa. Kugwiritsidwa ntchito kwa mafano a anthu omwe akufa kapena posachedwa ndi, m'madera ena, oletsedwa ndi malamulo okhudzana ndi ufulu wa umunthu, osadalira ufulu wawo. Musanagwiritse ntchito mauthengawa, chonde tsimikizirani kuti muli ndi ufulu wogwiritsa ntchito pansi pa malamulo omwe akugwiritsidwa ntchito pamene mukugwiritsiridwa ntchito.  
 Kufalitsa uthenga wopezeka mu Wikipedia kungakhale kuphwanya malamulo a dziko kapena maulamuliro kumene mukuwona nkhaniyi. Ndalama ya Wikipedia imasungidwa pa seva ku United States of America, ndipo imasungidwa ponena za chitetezo chomwe chimaperekedwa pansi pa malamulo a m'dera lanu. Malamulo mu dziko lanu kapena maulamuliro sangateteze kapena kulola mitundu yofanana ya kulankhula kapena kufalitsa. Wikipedia siilimbikitsa kuphwanya malamulo alionse, ndipo sangakhale ndi mlandu wa kuphwanya malamulowa, ngati mutagwirizanitsa ndi domina kapena ntchitoyi, mubweretsenso kapena kubwezeretsanso zomwe zili pano.
 Ngati mukufuna malangizo enieni (mwachitsanzo, zachipatala, zalamulo, zachuma kapena zoopsa), chonde funsani akatswiri omwe ali ndi chilolezo kapena odziwa mderalo.


URL: https://nds.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Impressum

Content: Anbaden warrt disse Websteed vun de  , indragen bi dat   ünner de Nummer N03000005323. De Wikimedia Foundation is en Sticht na dat Recht vun’n US-Bundsstaat  . De Verantwoortliche un Designated Agent na den Digital Millennium Copyright Act is  .
 Wenn se Fragen hebbt oder en Interview wünscht köönt se sik informell ok an de aktiven Brukers wennen, kiek dorto bi   un  .
  is ene fre’e  , de ünner de   in’t Internett ünner   to finnen is. Mehr dorto steiht in’n  .
 De as „Administraters“ optellten Brukers in de Wikipedia sünd kene offiziellen Vertreders vun’n Anbeder vun disse Websteed. Se sünd blots Brukers, de en beten mehr technische Mööglichkeiten kregen hebbt. Disse Lüüd helpt in de Regel geern un gau bi Fragen oder Problemen, sünd aver op kene Wies för disse Websteed verantwoortlich.
 Elk Bruker is för de vun em instellten Bidrääg sülvs in vullen Ümfang verantwoortlich. Utsluss vun enkelte Brukers behöllt sik de Anbeder vör.
 De Brukers sünd opropen, de Inholten, de se to disse Websteed bistüert, na best Weten to erstellen. Aver  
 De Anbeder verlööft den kommerziellen Bruuk un de Wiedergaav vun de in Wikipedia enthaltenen Daten ünner de Bedingen vun de  , kiek ok bi  .
 De Anbeder wiest op alle Sieden dorop hen, dat Material, dat ünner dat Oorheverrecht vun Drüdde steiht, nich bruukt warrn dröff. In enkelte Fäll kann dat aver vörkamen, dat en Bruker gegen dat Oorheverrecht verstött, ahn dat dat opfallt.
 Wenn de Anbeder en Henwies op so en Vörfall kriggt, denn warrt opsteeds dat Material vun’n Server nahmen. Se köönt sik över de Siet   oder över en E-Mail an de Adress   mellen, wenn se denkt, dat en Wikipedia-Siet gegen ehr Oorheverrecht verstött. Üm dat Bearbeiden vun de Anfraag fix aftosluten, is dat wichtig, de Adress vun de problemaatsche Wikipedia-Siet un den Naam vun dat Originalmaterial, vun dat kopeert worrn is, mit optoföhren.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Wikipedia%3AGeneral+disclaimer

Content: edits articles recent contributors

URL: https://bxr.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D1%8D%D0%B4%D0%B8:%D0%9D%D0%B8%D0%B8%D1%82%D1%8D_%D1%82%D0%B0%D1%82%D0%B0%D0%B3%D0%B0%D0%BB%D0%B7%D0%B0%D0%BB

Content:  гээшэ хүнэй мэдэлгын сан нэгэдхэжэ, арбижуулхын түлөө, һанаагаара ябалгын үндэһэн дээрэ нэгэдэжэ хамтаран бэшэдэг, Интернетдэхи нэбтэрхэй толи юм. Интернет холболтотой хүн бүри энэ түсэлэй агуулгые хубилгажа болоно. Ушар иимэһээ эндэ байдаг мэдээлэлэй мэргэжэлтэнүүд хинажа, үнэн зүб гэдэгые баталнагүй болон зарим мэдээлэл найдабаритай буса байжа болоно.
 Хэдыгээр Википеэдидэхи диилэнхи мэдээлэл үнэ сэнтэй, үнэн зүб байдагшье гээд,   


URL: https://km.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E1%9E%9C%E1%9E%B7%E1%9E%82%E1%9E%B8%E1%9E%97%E1%9E%B8%E1%9E%8C%E1%9E%B6:%E1%9E%80%E1%9E%B6%E1%9E%9A%E1%9E%94%E1%9E%8A%E1%9E%B7%E1%9E%9F%E1%9F%81%E1%9E%92_%E1%9E%91%E1%9E%BC%E1%9E%91%E1%9F%85

Content: វិគីភីឌាជាប្រភេទសព្វវចនាធិប្បាយនៅលើបណ្តាញ​អ៊ីនធឺណិតដែលមានការចូលរួមដោយសហគមន៍អ្នកស្ម័គ្រចិត្តជាច្រើនរូប ដើម្បីចូលរួមចំនែកពង្រីក និងចែករំលែកចំនេះដឹងគ្នាទៅវិញតៅមកនៅតាមបណ្តាញអ៊ិនអឺណិត ដែលប្រភពក្នុងការអភិវឌ្ឍន៍ដ៏ចំបងសំរាប់អ្នកប្រើប្រាស់អ៊ីនធឺណិតទូទៅ។ រចនាសំព័ន្ធរបស់គំរោងនេះគឺអនុញ្ញាតអោយ​មនុស្សគ្រប់រូប​ដែលមានបណ្ដាញ​អ៊ីនធឺណិត​ធ្វើការកែប្រែខ្លឹមសារអត្ថបទនានា។ សូមកត់សំគាល់ថា អ្វីៗដែលសរសេរនៅទីនេះ​មិនប្រាកដថា​បានឆ្លងកាត់ការត្រួតពិនិត្យ​ពីអ្នកមានជំនាញត្រឹមត្រូវ ក្នុងការផ្ដល់អោយអ្នក​នូវព័ត៌មានពេញលេញ ត្រឹមត្រូវ និងអាចទុកចិត្តបាន១០០%ទេ។
 នេះមិនមែនមានន័យថា​អ្នកមិនអាចរកបានព័ត៌មាន​មានតំលៃនិងត្រឹមត្រូវសោះនោះទេ។ ភាគច្រើនអ្នកអាចរកបានព័ត៌មាន​មានតំលៃ ប៉ុន្តែ  ។ ខ្លឹមសារអត្ថបទ​ខ្លះត្រូវបានកែប្រែនាពេលថ្មីៗ បំផ្លិចបំផ្លាញ ឬប្ដូរខ្លឹមសារទាំងស្រុង​ដោយនរណាម្នាក់​ដែលមានយោបល់​ខុសពីអ្វីដែលគេសរសេរមុននោះ។
 គេហទំព័រវិគីភីឌានេះមានការធានានិងទំនួលអ្វីទាំងអស់។ អ្នកដែលជាប់ពាក់ពាន់នឹងវិបសាយនេះ(រួមទាំងអ្នកចូលរួមចំនែកទាំងឡាយ) មិនព្រមទទួលខុសត្រូវ និងសូមធ្វើការបដិសេធចំពោះរាល់ការទាមទារអោយទទួលខុសត្រូវរបស់លោកអ្នក។ សូមអ្នកមានទំនួលខុសត្រូវរាល់ការប្រើប្រាស់វិបសាយនេះ ទាំងការមើល ការរួមចំនែក ការយកខ្លឹមសារក្នុងវិបសាយនេះទៅប្រើប្រាស់។
 ​


URL: https://bs.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Odricanje_odgovornosti

Content: Wikipedia ne garantira potpunost ni tačnost informacija i podataka.
 Wikipedia je saradnička   otvorenog sadržaja na  , tj. dobrovoljno udruženje grupa i pojedinaca koji stvaraju i razvijaju zajednički izvor ljudskog saznanja. Sama struktura projekta omogućava svakome s pristupom internetu i mrežnim   ( ,  ,  ,  ,...), da mijenja njegov sadržaj. Budite svjesni da ništa što možete naći ovdje ne mora biti pregledano od strane profesionalaca dovoljno stručnih da bi Vam se pružile potpune, tačne i pouzdane informacije.
 To ne znači da se na Wikipediji ne mogu naći vrijedne i tačne informacije; najčešće one to jesu. Ipak, Wikipedia ne može garantirati valjanost informacija koje se mogu naći ovdje. Sadržaj bilo kojeg članka mogao je u skorije vrijeme biti potpuno promijenjen, vandaliziran ili izmijenjen od strane nekoga čije mišljenje ne odgovara stanju saznanja iz bitnih oblasti.
 Trenutno radimo na načinima kojima će se moći izabrati i istaći pouzdane verzije članaka. Naša aktivna zajednica urednika koristi alatke kao što su   i  , putem kojih se prate promjene i dodavanje novog sadržaja. Ipak, Wikipedia se ne provjerava jednoobrazno; mada čitaoci mogu ispravljati greške ili se upuštati u neobavezne zajedničke provjere, nemaju nikakvu pravnu obavezu to raditi. Stoga su sve informacije koje ovdje pročitate bez ikakve nagoviještene garantirane podobnosti za bilo koju svrhu ili upotrebu. Čak i članci koji su izdvojeni neobaveznom zajedničkom provjerom ili procesima za izbor kvalitetnijih mogu kasnije biti uređeni neprilično, i to tik prije no što ih Vi pregledate.
 Molimo Vas da se potrudite da razumijete da su informacije koje se ovdje nalaze pružene slobodno i da ne postoji nikakav sporazum ili ugovor načinjen između Vas i vlasnika i korisnika ove stranice, vlasnika servera na kojem je smještena, pojedinačnih doprinosilaca Wikipediji, bilo kojeg od administratora ili "birokrata" projekta, kao ni bilo koga drugog na bilo koji način povezanog s ovim ili njegovim srodnim projektima ko bi bio direktno podložan Vašim navodima protiv njih. Imate ograničenu dozvolu (licencu) da kopirate bilo šta s ove stranice; ona ne stvara niti nagovještava ikakvu ugovornu ili vanugovornu odgovornost Wikipedije niti bilo koga od njenih agenata, članova, organizatora ili drugih korisnika.
 Ne postoji nikakav dogovor ili sporazum između Vas i Wikipedie u vezi s Vašim korištenjen ili modificiranjem ovih informacija van okvira GNU-ove licence za slobodnu dokumentaciju (GLSD, GFDL) niti je iko na Wikipediji odgovoran ako neko promijeni ili ukloni bilo koju informaciju koju postavite na Wikipediju ili bilo koji od povezanih projekata.
 Bilo koji od zaštitnih ( ), servisnih ( ) ili zbirnih znakova ( ), prava dizajna ( ), prava ličnosti ( ) ili sličnih prava koja se spominju, koriste ili navode u člancima enciklopedije Wikipedia vlasništvo su njihovih dotičnih vlasnika. Njihova upotreba ovdje ne nagovještava da ih možete koristiti u bilo koju drugu svrhu osim one iste ili slične informativne upotrebe koju su zamislili originalni autori ovih Wikipedijinih članaka pod shemom licenciranja GLSD. Osim ako je drugačije naglašeno, Wikipedia i Wikimedijine stranice niti podržavaju niti su povezani sa bilo kojim od vlasnika takvih prava i Wikipedia kao takva ne može dati nikakva prava na korištenje materijala koji je inače zaštićen. Vaša upotreba bilo kojeg takvog ili sličnog nematerijalnog vlasništva je na Vaš rizik.
 Objavljivanje informacija i sadržaja Wikipedije može biti shvaćeno kao kršenje zakona nekih država ili pravnih entiteta iz kojih Vi imate pristup ovim informacijama. Baza podataka Wikipedije čuva se na serverima u državi   ( ) te njihovo održavanje i čuvanje podliježe lokalnim i federalnim zakonima tih pravnih entiteteta i država. Zakoni u Vašoj državi ili pravnom entitetu mogu zagovarati i braniti sasvim drugačije stavove. Wikipedia ne podržava niti ohrabruje kršenje ničijih zakona te stoga ne može odgovarati za bilo kakvo kršenje nečijih zakona niti biti odgovorna za povezivanje sadržaja Wikipedije s internetskim domenima koji podliježu drugačijim zakonima, kao ni za reproduciranje ili objavljivanje informacija i podataka sadržanih u njoj.
 Ako imate potrebu za nekim savjetom ( ,  , finansijskim ili u vezi s poslovnim rizicima), molimo da se obratite profesionalnom stručnjaku iz dotične oblasti.
 Hvala na vremenu koje ste utrošili da pročitate ovu stranicu i želimo Vam da uživate u korištenju i pregledanju Wikipedije.
 Iako je sadržaj drugih enciklopedija (koje se razlikuju od Wikipedije po licenci pod kojom se objavljuju), pregledan i potvrđen od strane sručnjaka i profesionalaca iz raznih oblasti, ipak se ne garantira ispravnost, tačnost i potpunost njihovog sadržaja.


URL: https://uz.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikipediya:Mas%CA%BCuliyatdan_voz_kechish

Content:  — bu  - , yaʼni undagi maʼlumotlarni internetga ulangan  . Shuni nazarda tutingki, bu yerda joylashtirilgan maʼlumotlar aniq va ishonchli ekanligiga kafolat berilmaydi, chunki ular soha mutaxassislari tomonidan tekshirib chiqilmagan boʻlishi mumkin.
 Vikipediyaga aloqador boʻlgan hech bir shaxs lohiya sahifalarida xato yoki yolgʻon maʼlumotlar paydo boʻlmasligiga masʼul emas.
 Agar sizga tibbiyot, huquqshunoslik, moliya sohalari boʻyicha mutaxassis maslahati kerak boʻlsa, iltimos, tegishli litsenziya va bilimga ega professionallarga murojaat qiling.


URL: https://bo.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 
  -  -    -  -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the  ; neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=User_talk:2601:1C2:1A00:2B5:E87D:59A4:C2B1:A08A&action=edit&redlink=1

Content:  are where people discuss how to make content on Wikipedia the best that it can be. Use this page to start a discussion about the edits made from this IP address. What you say here will be public for others to see. Many IP addresses change periodically, and are often shared by several people.


URL: https://ps.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%D9%8A%DA%A9%D9%8A%D9%BE%DB%90%DA%89%D9%8A%D8%A7:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content.  Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.  However,    The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.  
 fahim ullah kama که چیرې ستا سو په   کې ویروس شتون ولری نو څنگه پوهیدای شۍ چې زما کمپیوټر په ویروس ککړ دی یوڅو اړین ټکي درپه گوته کوم. د کمپیوټر ویروس یو ډیر زیا نمن شی دی.ځکه ډیر ځله د کمپیوټر کارونکي ته د ویروس دشتون معلوما ت نه کیږي او کله چې کارونکی د ویروس په شتون پوه شي نو وخت له وخته تیروي او ویروس خپل کار کړی وي.داسې ډیرې نښې نښانې شته چې له پلوه یی تا سې په کمپیوټر کې د ویروس دشتون شک کولای شی. لاندینۍ نښې نښا نې اړینه نه ده چې خا مخا به دویروس له شتون نه پیدا شوې وي، ځکه داسې نور ډیر عوامل هم شته چې په کمپیوټر کې دا راز نښې نښانې رامنځته کړي. مگر که چیرې تا سو په خپل کمپیوټر کې یوه هم له دغو لاندینیو نښو څخه ومونده نو ښه به دا وي چې دیوه ښه Antivirus پوستکالي(سا فټ ویر) په مټ خپل کمپیوټر Scan کړۍ. نوموړ ې نښا نې په لاندې ډول دي:  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . ==د ویروسی کمپیوتر نښی==
 ددې لپاره ویروس خپل ځان Replicate دځان په څیر هو به هو د بل ویروس تولیدولو ته وایي.) کړي په کمپیوټر کې د Exe یا Com فا یلونو سره ځان سریښوي.او دا کار نوموړی ویروس څو څو ځله تکراروي ددویروس ددې کار له امله د نوموړو یادو شویو فایلونو میچ (size) ډیر غوټیږي له همدې امله نوموړي فا یلونه په هارډیسک باندې ډیر ځای نیسي. پس که داسې ویروس په خپل وخت ونه نیول شي نودنوموړي ویروس د وار په وار Replication څخه کارونکی په هارډیسک کې دځای دکمښت سره مخامخ کیږی.که چیری ستا سو په کمپیوټر کې د CAD روستاړي لرونکې پوستکا لې او یا هم د Graphics لپاره کارونکي پوستکالي شتون ولري نو داهم ستاسو د هارډیسک ډیر ځای نیسي.په هر حال ددغې پورتنۍ نښې له ښکاره کیدلو سره په خپل کمپوټر با ندې د Antivirus پوستکالی وچلوۍ.
 ډیرو ښا غلیو او آغلیو په پورتنۍ جمله کې Activity د فعا لیت اوLED د 
Light Emitting Diode په مانا دی. چې د رڼا ورکونکي تیوب ما نا ترې اخستلی شو. 
ستا سو د کمپوټر په مخه کې یووړوکی څراغ شتون لری چې د هارډیسک په نښان سره ښودل شوی. اوس نو کله چې تا سو کوم پروگرام یا پوستکا لی کا روی یعنې د پوستکا لي په کارولو بوخت یا ست او یا مو کوم پوستکالی تا زه چا لان کړۍ تر څو کار ترې واخلۍ په دې دواړو وختونوکې د هارډیسک Activity LED با ید وپړکیږي یا نې Flashing با ید وکړي. مگر که چیرې تاسو په پورتنیو داوړو حا لتونوکې قرار نه لری او بیا موهم د هارډیسک Activity LED په وار وار پړکیږي نو گمان کیږي چې ویروس Replication پیل کړی او دوام لري. په دې حال کې هم دAntivirus دپوستکالي چلول اړین بریښي.
 که چیرې تا سوفکر کوی چې کمپیوټر مو ورځ په ورځ پڅیږي په دې مانا چې که چیرې ستاسو کمپیوټر مخکې په دودقیقو کې Boot کیدلو او اوس ډیر ځنډ با سي تر څو Boot شي او یا هم که چیرې ستا سو د Ms-Word پوستکالی مخکې په یوه دقیقه کې چا لانیدلو او اوس په ډیر ځنډ چا لانیږي نو د ویروس د شتون ډیره کره نښه کیدلای شي نو اړینه ده خپل د Antivirus پوستکا لی وچلوی. دا یوه ډیره کره او ټا کنیزه نښه ده چې ډیر دوستا ن له دې ستونزې څخه ماته شکا یت کوي.
 Hello there,
 My name is Aly and I would like to know if you would have any interest to have your website here at wikipedia.org promoted as a resource on our blog alychidesign.com ? 
 We are in the midst of updating our broken link resources to include current and up to date resources for our readers. Our resource links are manually approved allowing us to mark a link as a do-follow link as well
.
If you may be interested please in being included as a resource on our blog, please let me know.
 Thanks,
Aly
 ډیر هغه پوستکا لي چې د Bugs لرونکي وي کمپیوټر په ټپه دروي همدا راز د Mother Board ا و یا Memory دخرابي له امله هم کمپیوټرپه وار وار په ټپه دریږي او همداراز د ویروس شتون هم کولای شي کمپیوټر په ټپه ودروي. په دې حا لت کې هم خپل د Antivirus پوستکا لی وچلوۍ.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articlwes under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://bar.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Impressum

Content: Da Obiata vo dera Netzseitn is de  , eidrogn beim   mid da Numma N03000005323. De Wikimedia Foundation is a Stiftung nochm Recht vom US-Bundesstoot  . De vaantwortliche Osprechpeason – gleizeiti   im Sinne vom   – is de  .


URL: https://pa.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A8%B5%E0%A8%BF%E0%A8%95%E0%A9%80%E0%A8%AA%E0%A9%80%E0%A8%A1%E0%A9%80%E0%A8%86:%E0%A8%86%E0%A8%AE_%E0%A8%85%E0%A8%B8%E0%A8%B5%E0%A9%80%E0%A8%95%E0%A8%BE%E0%A8%B0%E0%A8%A4%E0%A8%BE

Content: 
 
 विकिपीडिया एक वेब आधारित सहयोग-प्राप्त ज्ञानकोश है, अर्थात्, यह मानव ज्ञान का आम संसाधन विकसित करने के लिए व्यक्तियों तथा समूहों का एक स्वैच्छिक संगठन है। इस परियोजना की संरचना अंतर्जाल संयोजन के साथ किसी भी व्यक्ति को इसकी सामग्री परिवर्तित करने की अनुमति देता है। कृपया यह ध्यान रखें कि यह आवश्यक नहीं है कि यहाँ पाई गई सामग्री की विशेषज्ञों द्वारा सही तथा विश्वसनीय जानकारी देने के लिए समीक्षा की गई हो।   ਵਿਕੀਪੀਡੀਆ ਇੱਕ ਵੈੱਬ ਅਧਾਰਿਤ ਸਹਿਜੋਗ ਮਿਲਦੇ ਰਹਿਣ ਉੱਪਰ ਨਿਰਭਰ ਗਿਆਨ ਦਾ ਭੰਡਾਰ ਹੈ,ਜਿਹੜਾ ਕਿ ਆਜ਼ਾਦ ਸੰਗਠਨ ਹੈ ਜੋ ਕਿ ਇਕ ਮਜ਼ਬੂਤ ਅਤੇ ਮਨੁੱਖੀ ਵਰਤੋਂ ਯੋਗ ਸੰਸਾਧਨ ਸਾਬਤ ਹੋਣ ਵਾਸਤੇ ਸਮਰਪਿਤ ਆਮ ਲੋਕ ਜਾਂ ਉਹਨਾਂ ਦੇ ਸਮੂਹ ਦੇ ਯੋਗਦਾਨ ਦੀ ਖਾਹਿਸ਼ ਰੱਖਦਾ ਹੈ । ਇਸ ਪਰਿਯੋਜਨਾ ਦੀ ਬਣਤਰ ਆਪਸੀ ਸਹਿਜੋਗ ਤੇ ਅਧਾਰਿਤ ਹੋਣ ਦੇ ਕਾਰਨ ਇਹ ਹਰੇਕ ਵਿਯਕਤੀ ਨੂੰ ਇਸਨੂੰ ਬਦਲ ਸਕਣ ਦਾ ਹੱਕਦਾਰ ਬਣਾਉਂਦੀ ਹੈ । ਇੱਥੇ ਧਿਆਨ ਦੇਣ ਦੀ ਲੋੜ ਹੈ ਕਿ ਕੋਈ ਜ਼ਰੂਰੀ ਨਹੀਂ ਕਿ ਇਸਦੀ ਸਮੱਗਰੀ ਤਿਆਰ ਕਰਨ ਲਈ ਕਿਸੇ ਮਾਹਿਰ ਜਾਂ ਭਰੋਸੇ ਯੋਗ ਸਰੋਤਾਂ ਦੀ ਜਾਣਕਾਰੀ ਜੁਟਾਈ ਗਈ ਹੋਵੇ।
 इसका यह तात्पर्य नहीं है कि आपको विकिपीडिया पर मूल्यवान तथा सही जानकारी नहीं मिलेगी; अधिकांशतः यह सही ही होगी। हालांकि,   किसी भी लेख की सामग्री को हटाया जा सकता है, उत्पात का शिकार हो सकती है अथवा ऐसे व्यक्ति द्वारा बदली जा सकती है जो उस संगत क्षेत्र में ज्ञान की अवस्था से भिन्न विचार रखता हो। ध्यान दें कि अधिकतर अन्य विकिपीडिया तथा सन्दर्भ कार्यों में भी   होते हैं।
 हम लेखों के विश्वसनीय संस्करण चुनने तथा हाइलाइट करने के तरीकों पर कार्य कर रहे हैं। हमारा सम्पादकों का सक्रिय समुदाय नयी तथा बदलती सामग्री पर निगाह रखने के लिये   तथा   फीड जैसे औजारों का प्रयोग करता है। हालाँकि विकिपीडिया की समीक्षा समान रूप से नहीं की जाती; यद्यपि पाठक गलतियों को सुधार सकते हैं तथा कैजुअल   में शामिल हो सकते हैं तथापि उन्हें ऐसा करने का कोई कानूनी कर्तव्य नहीं है तथा इस प्रकार यहाँ पढ़ी गयी सारी जानकारी किसी उद्देश्य या किसी प्रयोग के लिये बिना किसी क्रियान्वित फिटनेस वारण्टी के है। यहाँ तक कि जो लेख अनौपचारिक पीयर समीक्षा अथवा   प्रक्रिया से गुजरे है बाद में इससे पहले कि आप उन्हें देखें हो सकता है कि वो अनुपयुक्त रूप से सम्पादित किये गये हों।
 
 कृपया यह सुनिश्चित कर लें कि यहाँ उपलब्ध की गयी जानकारी मुक्त रूप से उपलब्ध कराई जा रही है तथा आपके एवं इस साइट के मालिकों या सदस्यों, सर्वर के मालिकों, एकल विकिपीडिया योगदानकर्ता, कोई परियोजना प्रबन्धक, सिस्टम ऑपरेटर या कोई अन्य जो इस परियोजना या इसकी किसी बन्धु परियोजना से   के मध्य आपके किसी प्रकार के दावे हेतु किसी प्रकार का ऍग्रीमेण्ट या अनुबन्ध नहीं हो रहा। आपको इस साइट से कोई सामग्री कॉपी करने हेतु एक सीमित लाइसेंस दिया जा रहा है; यह विकिपीडिया की तरफ से या इसके किसी एजेण्ट, सदस्य किसी अनुबन्धित या अतिरिक्त अनुबन्धित दायित्व को बनाता या क्रियान्वित नहीं करता।
  विकिपीडिया के   (CC-BY-SA) तथा   (GFDL) के अन्तर्गत ही है। इसके अतिरिक्त विकिपीडिया से जुड़ा कोई भी व्यक्ति किसी सामग्री में किसी के द्वारा परिवर्तन, सम्पादन, संशोधन तथा निकाले जाने हेतु जिम्मेदार नहीं होगा।
 कोई भी ट्रेडमार्क, सर्विस मार्क, साँझे/संयुक्त मार्क, डिजाइन अधिकार अथवा इसी प्रकार के अधिकार जो कि विकिपीडिया के लेखों में व्यवस्थित किये जाते हैं, प्रयोग किये जाते हैं अथवा उद्धृत किये जाते हैं वे उनके क्रमशः मालिकों की मिल्कियत हैं। उनके यहाँ प्रयोग का अर्थ यह नहीं है कि आप उनका समान अथवा समान जानकारीपूर्ण प्रयोग के अतिरिक्त अन्य कार्यों हेतु प्रयोग कर सकें जैसा कि इन विकिपीडिया लेखों के मूल लेखकों के द्वारा CC-BY-SA तथा GFDL लाइसेंस स्कीमों में वर्णित है। जब तक अन्यथा न कहा जाय विकिपीडिया तथा विकिमीडिया साइटें न तो इन अधिकारों के मालिकों से किसी प्रकार सम्बद्ध हैं और न ही समर्थित हैं अतः विकिपीडिया किसी अन्य रूप से सुरक्षित सामग्री के प्रयोग हेतु अधिकार प्रदान नहीं कर सकता। आपके द्वारा इस प्रकार या   का उपयोग आपके अपनी जिम्मेदारी पर है।
 विकिपीडिया में ऐसी सामग्री है जिसमें एक पहचान योग्य व्यक्ति को चित्रित किया गया हो जो जीवित या हाल ही में मर चुका हो। जीवित या हालिया मृत व्यक्ति के चित्रों का उपयोग कुछ अधिकार-क्षेत्रों में कॉपीराइट स्थिति के अलावा व्यक्तिगत अधिकारों से सम्बद्ध कानूनों द्वारा प्रतिबन्धित है। इस प्रकार की सामग्री के उपयोग से पहले कृपया यह सुनिश्चित कर लें कि आपको आपके आशयित प्रयोग से सम्बद्ध क्षेत्र में कानूनन इनके प्रयोग का अधिकार हो।  
 विकिपीडिया पर उपलब्ध सामग्री का प्रकाशन आप जिस देश में यह जानकारी देख रहे हैं, उस देश या क्षेत्र के कानून का उल्लंघन हो सकती है। विकिपीडिया डाटाबेस   के   प्रान्त के एक सर्वर में संगृहीत है तथा इसका प्रबन्धन/व्यवस्थापन स्थानीय तथा संघीय कानून में प्रदत्त सुरक्षा सन्दर्भानुसार होता है। आपके देश के कानून इस प्रकार के वक्तत्व्य या वितरण की सुरक्षा या अनुमति शायद न दे सकें। विकिपीडिया किसी कानून के उल्लंघन को प्रोत्साहित नहीं करता तथा इस प्रकार के किसी कानून के उल्लंघन हेतु जिम्मेदार नहीं ठहराया जा सकता चाहे आप इस डोमेन को लिंक कर रहे हों, यहाँ उपलब्ध सामग्री को प्रयोग कर रहे हों, पुनर्निर्मित अथवा पुनर्प्रकाशित कर रहे हों।
 यदि आपको विशिष्ट सलाह (उदाहरण के लिये, चिकित्सकीय, कानूनी, वित्तीय अथवा रिस्क प्रबन्धन आदि) चाहिये तो कृपया किसी व्यावसायिक विशेषज्ञ की सलाह लें जो कि उस क्षेत्र में लाइसेसं प्राप्त अथवा विशेष ज्ञानी हो।


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=User_talk:2601:1C2:1A00:2B5:E87D:59A4:C2B1:A08A&action=edit&redlink=1

Content:  are where people discuss how to make content on Wikipedia the best that it can be. Use this page to start a discussion about the edits made from this IP address. What you say here will be public for others to see. Many IP addresses change periodically, and are often shared by several people.


URL: https://pfl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Impressum

Content: Anbieter vun derre Internetsaite isch d  , aigedrache baim   unna de Numma N03000005323. D Wikimedia Foundation isch e Stiftung noch em Recht vum US-Bunnesstaat Florida. D verantwortlich Ansprechperson un   im Sinn vum   isch zur Zait d  .
 Bai Froche kinnen Ehr aich ach an d aktive Nutza vun de Rheifränkische Wikipedia wenne, zum Baischpiel uf em  .


URL: https://bcl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Pankagabsan_na_pagsayuma

Content: 
 
 MAYONG MAITATAONG GARANTIYA AN WIKIPEDIA, NA AN LAOG KAN IMPORMASYON NA INI, HAMÁN, TAMA, MALALAUMAN ASIN MAPAGKAKATUBUDAN.
 Pigpapasabot na an balangkas kan  , saróng   asin  , na bukas sa gabós nin igwang koneksiyon sa Internet asin sa   (elektroniko) dangan an mga laog kaini, pwedeng báguhon niisay man (talingkas).   pwedeng an mga laog kan mga artikulo sa Wikipedya, BAKONG haman, tama asin malalauman o mapagkakatubudan na impormasyon 
 Alagad bakong boot sabihon kaini na dae makakahampang an mga parabasa kaini nin mga kapakipakinabang na impormasyon sa Wikipedia,   Pwedeng an mga artikulo kaini kapagdaka pigbágo niisay man. An pagbabagó kaini, pwedeng daing kauyon-uyunan sa saimong pigtutubodan o interes. Naggigibo an Wikipedia nin paagi na pilion asin matugutan an mga mas katubod-tubod asin malalauman na bersyon kan mga artikulo, alagad magkaarog man kaito, dae pa langgad matatáwan nin karampatang garantiya. An pinakaharanihon na bagay bilang ehemplo kaini iyo an sa ngunyan na madudugangan sa proseso o pahináng  . Arog pa man kaito, magin an mga artikulo sa irarom kaini, pwedeng mayóng hirak na pigbágo katapos-tapos kaining maisapubliko, o matapos na mabasa.
 Pakiulay na siguraduhong masabutan na pigtataó nin daing bayad an mga impormasyon digdi, asin kun magin arog kaito   o kontratang nabilog sa tahaw kan mga naggagaramit nin Wikipedia asin sa mga Kagsadiri kan sityong ini, mga server, paraambag, administrador, Mga tagamatô asin kan iba pan nakatakod sa proyekto o mga kapanalig manongod sa kun ano man an pwedeng ihain laban sa mga ini. 
 
 Pigtatáwanan an gabos nin limitadong lisensiya para kopyahon an miski anong bagay sa sityong ini, arog pa man kaito, dae namumukná, tugdas, gibo o poon, o nagpupoon nin saróng pang pananagutang kontraktuwal an pagtataó kan nasabing lisensiya, o kun ano pa man sa parte kan Wikipedia asin sa mga ahente, kaapil, paraayos o para'organisa, asin mga paragamit kaini.
 An gabos nin markang pagkakakilanlan, markang pangkalakal, Kagsadiring disenyo, personal na kasadirihan, Kagsadiring karapatan, pankagabsang marka asin kan iba pang kahalintulad na pag-rurugaring naitaram, o piggamit bilan toltolan sa artikulo sa ensiklopedyang ini, pawang pagaari lang kan sara-saindang parapagibo o kag-sadiri.  . Apwera kun nabanggit, dae iniindorso kan Wikipedia asin Wikimedia an mga ini, asin Sa bakong kapanalig, o ka "affiliate" sa mga Kagsadiri kan mga ini. Dae pwedeng magtaó an Wikipedia nin karapatan sa paggamit kan Mga ini, ta an mga ini pwedeng protektado o reserbadong materyales. Nasa saimong kamot an paggamit kan mga ini gayumpaman, igwa man kaakibat na pananagutan an paggamit sa mga ini.
 Girumdomi man, na pwedeng kontra sa mga ley na itigtadhana kan saindong nasyon, o nasasakupan nin Lugar an mga impormasyon sa Wikipedia, kun saen ini pigbibisita. Dae pigkukunsinte kan Wikipedia an mga paglabag na ini, tibaad, ta an mga impormasyon digdi naitatago sa server na nakabase sa  ,  , pigmamantinir ini sa liwanag kan proteksiyon naitadhana kan  , laló na an probisyon kan Enot na Pag-aammiyenda asin mga prinsipyong napasasairarom kan Deklarasyong Unibersal kan mga Karapatang Pantawo kan  . An mga ley hale sa ibang nasyon, pwedeng daeng minasaklaw sa mga proteksiyon sa Karapatang Makapagpahayag kaarog kan sa Estados Unidos o sa karta nin Mga Nasyong Nagkakasararó, at kun magkagayon, mayong pananagutan as miski ano pan paagi, sa kung ano man na potensyal na pagluwas sa mga ley an Wikipedia.
 . Pwede man basahon an mga minasunod:
 
 Arog kan nabanggit, bakong unipormadong napagbalik-adalan an laog kan Wikipedia sa saindang parte o kabuuan, miski na igwang kakayahan an mga parabasa na báguhon, itama o halion an mga bakong tamang suhestiyon o rekomendasyon, mayóng legal na pananagutan o obligasyon na pigsasagibo an mga ini.  
 Mayóng pananagutan o danyos na pwedeng hagadon o gikan sa Wikipedia, ta ini binibilog sana ini nin mga boluntaryong asosasyon nin mga indibidwal na igwang manlaenlaen na kaaraman (o kasalaan), kultura asin reperensiya. Inuutro tabi na pigtatáwanan nin mayong bayad an mga impormasyong laog kaini asin mayóng kontrata sa paagi kan Wikipedia apwera sa lisensiyang  . 
 Minagiromdom tabi giraray, pigpapagiromdoman na mayong pananagutan an Wikipedia sa pagbabagó, paghalí, o pagdugang kan mga impormasyon na taon digdi.
 Dios Mabalos sa panahon na saimong piggugol sa pagbabasá kan pahinang ini asin lugod magin toltol an saimong paggamit, pag-aambag asin pagtangkilik sa Wikipedia.
 Igwa man an ibang ensiklopedya kan sara-saindang pagiromdom. Pira lang an mga minasunod sa sipi nin mga pagiromdom na ini:
 (pigmantinar an mga pangiromdon na ini sa orihinal na sipi asin pagkakasurat - Tataramon na Ingles)


URL: https://or.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%AC%89%E0%AC%87%E0%AC%95%E0%AC%BF%E0%AC%AA%E0%AC%BF%E0%AC%A1%E0%AC%BC%E0%AC%BF%E0%AC%86:%E0%AC%86%E0%AC%AE%E0%AD%87_%E0%AC%A6%E0%AC%BE%E0%AD%9F%E0%AD%80_%E0%AC%A8%E0%AD%8B%E0%AC%B9%E0%AD%81%E0%AC%81

Content: Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content.  Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.  However,    The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.  Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works also have  .
 We are working on ways to select and highlight reliable versions of articles.  Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content.  However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever.  Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC-BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or deceased recently.  The use of images of living or recently deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.   
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:RecentChanges

Content: This is a list of recent changes to Wikipedia.
 This page is not available in other languages.

URL: https://bg.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%A3%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%8F:%D0%9F%D1%80%D0%B5%D0%B4%D1%83%D0%BF%D1%80%D0%B5%D0%B6%D0%B4%D0%B5%D0%BD%D0%B8%D0%B5

Content: Уикипедия е      , резултат от доброволните съвместни усилия на отделни личности и групи от хора, насочени към създаването и развиването на един общ ресурс на човешкото познание. Структурата и технологията на проекта позволяват всеки човек с връзка към интернет да променя съдържанието ѝ. Трябва да е ясно, че информацията на този сайт не се преглежда непременно от експерти в съответните области, чрез които да се осигури и гарантира изчерпателна, вярна или надеждна информация.
 От това не следва, че в Уикипедия няма да намерите ценна и достоверна информация, напротив, в повечето случаи ще е точно такава. Но все пак Уикипедия не може да   валидността на информацията. Съдържанието на всяка статия във всеки един момент може да бъде вандализирано или подменено с твърдения, които не отговарят на нивото на познание в съответната област.
 
 Направете всичко възможно да се уверите сами, че информацията, която получавате от Уикипедия, е точна и проверена. Направете справки с източниците, посочени в края на статиите. Преглеждайте историите на статиите и прилежащите им беседи, за да разберете дали текат дебати по съдържанието. Сверявайте информацията с   източници.
 В процес на разработка сме на методи за разграничаване между достоверните и недостоверните версии на статиите. Активната редакторска общност използва инструменти като   и  , за да следи добавяното ново съдържание и промените на съществуващото. Въпреки това, съдържанието в Уикипедия не се преглежда равностойно и макар потребителите да могат да поправят грешки или спорадично да участват в рецензиране (peer review) на статии, те не са правно задължени да извършват тази дейност. Следователно не съществуват никакви, дори косвени гаранции за пригодност на информацията за каквато и да било цел. Дори статии, които са преминали през процесите на редакторска проверка и гласуване за   от общността, могат да съдържат неуместни редакции, направени непосредствено преди да ги прочетете.
 
 Срещу Уикипедия не могат да се повдигат искове за настъпили щети, тъй като Уикипедия е доброволно съвместно начинание на хора, които създават онлайн разнообразни образователни, културни и информационни ресурси под отворен код.  
 Информацията в Уикипедия може да породи неоправдан риск за читателите, ако решат да я приложат на практика, да я използват за лични цели или да популяризират използването ѝ пред трети страни.
 Ако някоя статия съдържа твърдения, свързани с опасни, незаконни или неетични действия, не забравяйте, че техническа възможност да добавя такава информация в Уикипедия има  . Авторите на статията може да не са квалифицирани да предоставят пълна информация или да ви посъветват за адекватни предпазни мерки, които да предотвратят наранявания, телесни повреди или други щети на личността, имуществото или репутацията. Ако имате нужда от специфичен съвет (по медицина, право, управление на риска и др.) потърсете професионалист с познания и право да практикува в съответната област.
 Други рискове:   с ниска  , между 4 и 59 херца с пик при 20 херца (т.е. кадри в секунда), е възможно да причинят гърчове у хора с  .
 Уикипедия съдържа статии на много медицински теми, но не дава каквито и да са гаранции за тяхната достоверност. Няма абсолютно никаква сигурност, че което и да е твърдение, съдържащо се или цитирано в някоя статия по медицински въпрос е истинно, точно или актуално. Огромна част от тези статии частично или изцяло е дело на непрофесионалисти. Дори някое твърдение относно медикамент да е вярно, това не означава, че този медикамент е приложим за вас и вашето заболяване.
 Медицинската информация, която Уикипедия предлага, в най-добрия случай е от общ характер и не може да замести консултацията с квалифицирано медицинско лице.   Никаква информация от съдържанието на сайта или на който и да е от проектите на   не може да се тълкува като опит за предлагане или съставяне на медицинско становище или диагноза, или каквато и да е друга форма на вмешателство в медицинската практика.
 Уикипедия съдържа статии на много юридически теми, но не дава каквито и да е гаранции за тяхната достоверност. Няма абсолютно никаква сигурност, че което и да е твърдение, съдържащо се или цитирано в някоя статия по юридически въпрос, е истинно, точно или актуално. Огромната част от тези статии частично или изцяло е дело на непрофесионалисти.
 Законодателствата варират от държава до държава и се променят с времето, понякога много динамично. Дадено твърдение в статия на правна тема може да е валидно само за правосъдната система в държавата на редактора, добавил твърдението в статията. Също така, дори в даден момент правната рамка да е била коректно описана в Уикипедия, възможно е в момента на четене тя вече да е модифицирана или напълно отменена.
 Правната информация, която Уикипедия предлага, е в най-добрия случай от общ характер и не може да замести консултацията с професионален юрист, който има специфични юридически познания и може да ги приложи към вашия правен казус.   Никаква информация от съдържанието на сайта или на който и да е от проектите на Фондация Уикимедия не може да се тълкува като опит за предлагане на правен съвет или като каквато и да е друга форма на вмешателство в юридическата практика.
 Уикипедия е енциклопедия и съдържа много енциклопедични статии за литературни произведения, филми, телевизионни постановки, видеоигри и други. Смята се за необходимо тези статии да предлагат на читателите достатъчно подробен преразказ на произведенията. Много книги и филми обаче веднага губят част от целостта или емоционалното си въздействие, ако сюжетните линии и обрати са предварително известни.
  препоръчва материалите, разкриващи сюжета, да бъдат оградени от предупредителни съобщения. Поради аргументите по-горе това не е задължително в Уикипедия, но често се прави посредством отделянето на материала в раздел „Сюжет“ или ограждането му с шаблони   и  . Читателите, които желаят сами да проследят развитието на сюжета, би следвало да не четат статиите предварително. Това важи и за статиите, които (по една или друга причина) не съдържат предупреждения за разкриване на сюжета.
 Неприемливо е да се изтрива текст от статия, посветена на сюжетна творба, само по причина че той разкрива сюжета.  , енциклопедичният тон и други аспекти на качеството на статиите не могат да служат за оправдание на премахването на такива текстове.
 Уикипедия не се цензурира. Някои статии в Уикипедия могат да съдържат думи или да са посветени на обекти, които някои читатели намират за вулгарни или обидни. Възможно е статиите да съдържат текстове и изображения, до които достъпът за някои култури или възрастови групи е традиционно ограничен, например графично изобразяване на части от човешката анатомия или сцени на насилие. Възможно е някои материали в Уикипедия да отключат  .
 Също така е много вероятно нецензурни текстове и изображения да попадат в статиите в резултат на  . Много внимателно трябва да се добавя и премахва съдържание, което лесно може да се квалифицира като порнографско или изобразяващо насилие.
 Ако само четете съдържанието на Уикипедия, за вас не се снема повече информация, от тази, която по принцип се събира в сървърните логове на всеки сайт. Ако допринасяте към Уикипедия, то вие публично бивате идентифицирани като автор на редакциите или с вашата потребителска сметка, или с IP-адреса ви. Възможно е по IP-адреса и по информацията, съдържаща се в редакциите ви, да се разкрие самоличността ви. Дори ако допринасяте под потребителско име, в някои случаи може да се стигне до разкриване на вашия IP-адрес. Прочетете повече за  .
 Ако допринасяте с текстове към Уикипедия, вие по този начин ги лицензирате под условията на лиценза   и  . Накратко това означава, че:
 Ако не сте съгласни вашата писмена работа да бъде променяна и разпространявана без ограничения под тези условия, не я публикувайте в Уикипедия.
 За да допринасяте към Уикипедия, вие самите трябва да сте в позиция да отдавате съдържание под този лиценз, което означава:
  като автор, вие се съгласявате да получите признание на авторството си по някой от следните начини:   чрез хипервръзка (където е възможно) или уникален ресурсен локатор (URL) към статията или статиите, към които сте допринесли,   чрез хипервръзка (където е възможно) или уникален ресурсен локатор към алтернативно, устойчиво онлайн копие, което е свободно достъпно и съблюдава Условията ни за ползване и което прави признание на авторството по начин, еквивалентен на признанието, което предоставя този сайт, или   чрез списъка на всички съавтори. (Всеки списък от съавтори може да бъде филтриран така, че да изключи много малките или несъществени приноси.)
  ако желаете да внесете текст, който сте открили от друг източник или сте го написали съвместно с други лица, можете да го направите само ако текстът е достъпен при условия, съвместими с тези на лиценза CC-BY-SA. Няма нужда да осигурявате или гарантирате, че внесеният текст е достъпен при условията на Лиценза за свободна документация на GNU.
 Нещо повече, вследствие промяната на лицензионната политика на Уикипедия, влязла в сила през юни 2009 година, вече  . С други думи, можете да внасяте само текстове, които са   единично лицензирани при условия, съвместими с тези на лиценза CC-BY-SA или   двойно лицензирани под GFDL и друг лиценз, чиито условия са съвместими с тези на CC-BY-SA.
 Ако внасяте чужди текстове под съвместим лиценз, който изисква признание на авторството, то трябва да направите това позоваване по някакъв приемлив начин. На местата, където такова признание обикновено се прави чрез историите на страниците (например при копиране в рамките на Уикимедия), е достатъчно признанието да се направи в резюмето на редакцията, което се вписва в историята на страницата при внасянето на текста. Без значение от лиценза, текстът, който внасяте, може да бъде отхвърлен, ако са твърде големи претенциите на автора по отношение полагаемото му се признание.
 Можете свободно да използвате съдържание от проектите на Уикимедия, с изключение на съдържанието, качено със статут на „честна употреба“ или подобните му изключения, предвидени в законите за авторските права. Моля, придържайте се към препоръките по-долу:
 
 
 
 Всички  ,  ,  ,  , личностни права или сродни права, които са споменати, използвани или цитирани в статиите в Уикипедия, са собственост на съответните носители. Употребата им в Уикипедия не предполага да могат да се ползват извън енциклопедията за някаква друга, различна от информационната цел, с която са били поставени от оригиналните съавтори на статиите. Освен ако не е посочено друго, Уикипедия и нейните сайтове не са нито свързани със, нито упълномощени от носителите на тези права, да се разпореждат и да предоставят права за използване на иначе защитени материали. Вие използвате тези и подобни на тях нематериални собствености изцяло на своя отговорност.
 Публикуването от ваша страна на информация, намерена в Уикипедия, може да противоречи на държавното или местното законодателство, което е в сила на територията, откъдето четете тази информация. Базата данни на Уикипедия се съхранява на сървър в щата Флорида в Съединените американски щати, поддържа се в съответствие с местното и федералното право и се ползва от неговата закрила. Възможно е законодателството във вашата страна да не защитава или позволява подобна свобода на словото или свобода на разпространението на информация.
 Уикипедия не насърчава закононарушенията и не може да бъде държана отговорна за нарушаването на тези закони в случаите когато вие поставяте връзки към този домейн, използвате, копирате или на свой ред публикувате информацията, съдържаща се в Уикипедия.


URL: https://bh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AA%E0%A5%80%E0%A4%A1%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%BE:%E0%A4%B8%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%AE%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%A8%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%AF_%E0%A4%85%E0%A4%B8%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%A3

Content: 

URL: https://be-tarask.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D1%96%D0%BA%D1%96%D0%BF%D1%8D%D0%B4%D1%8B%D1%8F:%D0%90%D0%B4%D0%BC%D0%BE%D0%B2%D0%B0_%D0%B0%D0%B4_%D0%B0%D0%B4%D0%BA%D0%B0%D0%B7%D0%BD%D0%B0%D1%81%D1%8C%D1%86%D1%96

Content: Вікіпэдыя, он-лайн-энцыкляпэдыя з адкрытым зьместам, зьяўляецца добраахвотнай суполкай асобаў і групаў, якія працуюць над стварэньнем агульнага рэсурсу чалавечых ведаў. Структура праекту дазваляе любой асобе, якая мае падлучэньне да інтэрнэту, зьмяняць зьмест энцыкляпэдыі. Таму калі ласка, вазьміце да ўвагі, што прыведзеныя ў Вікіпэдыі зьвесткі могуць быць не праверанымі адмыслоўцамі, якія валодаюць ведамі ў адпаведных галінах, каб прадаставіць вам поўную, дакладную або надзейную інфармацыю.
 Безумоўна, гэта не азначае, што вы ня знойдзеце карысных і дакладных зьвестак у Вікіпэдыі — у большасьці выпадкаў гэта так і будзе. Аднак у агульным выпадку   Зьмест любога артыкула можа быць толькі што перапрацаваным, наўмысна пашкоджаным або зьмененым асобай, чыё меркаваньне не адпавядае агульнапрынятаму ў адпаведнай галіне ведаў.
 Мы працуем над тым, каб выбраць і зрабіць аддаць перавагу надзейным вэрсіям артыкулаў. Нашая суполка рэдактараў выкарыстоўвае прылады, такія як стужкі   або  , каб адсачыць новы і зьменены зьмест. Аднак, ня ўсе артыкулы Вікіпэдыі зьяўляюцца аднолькава праверанымі: чытачы і рэдактары могуць выпраўляць магчымыя памылкі або ўдзельнічаць у іх абмеркаваньні, але яны ня маюць абавязку рабіць гэта, таму ўся інфармацыя прадастаўляецца без аніякіх гарантыяў сапраўднасьці або прымальнасьці для выкарыстаньня ў любых мэтах. Нават у артыкулы, зьмест якіх быў правераны або  , пазьней маглі быць дададзеныя недакладныя або недапушчальныя зьвесткі — магчыма, нават акурат перад тым, як вы адкрылі адпаведны артыкул.
 
 Калі ласка, упэўніцеся, што вы разумееце, што інфармацыя, якая прадастаўляецца Вікіпэдыяй, прадастаўляецца вольна, і што не існуе ніякіх дамоваў або кантрактаў паміж вамі і ўласьнікамі або карыстальнікамі гэтага сайту, уласьнікамі сэрвэраў, на якіх разьмяшчаецца сайт, асобнымі аўтарамі Вікіпэдыі, адміністратарамі або любымі іншымі асобамі, якія   з гэтым праектам або яго братэрскімі праектамі, каб вы маглі высунуць любыя прэтэнзіі непасрэдна ў дачыненьні да іх. Вам прадастаўленая абмежаваная ліцэнзія на капіяваньне любых зьвестак з гэтага сайту; разам з тым, гэта не стварае ніякіх кантрактных або пазакантрактных абавязацельстваў для Вікіпэдыі альбо любых яе ўдзельнікаў, сябраў, стваральнікаў або іншых карыстальнікаў.
  у дачыненьні выкарыстаньня вамі або рэдагаваньня зьвестак энцыкляпэдыі апроч ліцэнзіяў   (CC-BY-SA) і   (GFDL); ніхто з асобаў, якія маюць дачыненьне да Вікіпэдым, не зьяўляецца адказным за карэктаваньне, рэдагаваньне або выдаленьне любых зьвестак, якія вы можаце дадаць у Вікіпэдыю або яе братэрскія праекты.
 Любыя гандлёвыя маркі або іншыя таварныя знакі, а таксама правы на дызайн і падобныя правы, якія згаданыя яўна, выкарыстаныя або працытаваныя ў артыкулах Вікіпэдыі зьяўляюцца ўласнасьцю іх уладальнікаў. Іх выкарыстаньне ў Вікіпэдыі не азначае, што вы можаце выкарыстоўваць іх зь любой мэтай, адрознай ад той, альбо падобнай да той, што першапачаткова была выкарыстаная аўтарамі адпаведных артыкулаў на ўмовах, якія адпавядаюць ліцэнзіям CC-BY-SA і GFDL. Калі не пазначана адваротнае, ні Вікіпэдыя, ні іншыя сайты фундацыі «Вікімэдыя» ніякім чынам не падтрымліваюць і не зьвязаныя з уладальнікамі такіх правоў, а Вікіпэдыя ня можа прадаставіць вам ніякіх правоў на выкарыстаньне матэрыялаў, даступных на іншых умовах. Вы выкарыстоўваеце такія або падобныя аб’екты нематэрыяльнай уласнасьці на сваю ўласную рызыку.
 Вікіпэдыя можа зьмяшчаць матэрыялы, якія могуць апісваць жывых асобаў або асобаў, якія нядаўна памерлі. Выкарыстаньне выяваў жывых асобаў або асобаў, якія нядаўна памерлі, у юрыдычных сыстэмах пэўных краінаў забароненае законамі аб правах асобы, незалежна ад статусу аўтарскіх правоў на выяву. Перад выкарыстаньнем такога тыпу зьместу, калі ласка, пераканайцеся, што вы маеце права выкарыстоўваць гэты зьмест у адпаведнасьці з законамі, якія рэгулююць такое выкарыстаньне.  .
 Публікацыя зьвестак, якія паходзяць зь Вікіпэдыі, можа быць парушэньнем законаў краіны або юрысдыкцыі, адкуль вы праглядаеце гэтыя зьвесткі. База зьвестак Вікіпэдыі захоўваецца на сэрвэрах у штаце   ў   і падтрымліваецца ў адпаведнасьці зь мясцовым і фэдэральным законамі. Законы вашай краіны або юрысдыкцыі могуць не дазваляць распаўсюджаньня такіх зьвестак. Вікіпэдыя не заахвочвае парушэньня законаў, а таксама ня можа адказваць за парушэньне такіх законаў у выпадках, калі вы спасылаецеся на яе або выкарыстоўваеце, пераядаеце або публікуеце зьвесткі, якія яна ўтрымлівае.
 Калі вам патрэбная парада адмыслоўца (напрыклад, у галінах мэдыцыны, права, фінансаў, кіраваньня рызыкай або іншых), калі ласка, зьвярніцеся да спэцыяліста, які мае ліцэнзію або зьяўляецца дасьведчаным у адпаведнай галіне.


URL: https://oc.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A8dia:Avertiments_generals

Content: Wikipèdia es une enciclopèdia fondada sus la tecnologia  . Aquesta tecnologia permet a tot visitor,  , de modificar a tot moment lo contengut de las paginas e de ne crear. Alara, se vesètz un problèma dins un article, podètz  :
 Per vos ajudar a modificar Wikipèdia, podètz consultar l'  e las   (especialament las  ).
 Aquesta libertat d'accès a per consequéncia que qualqu'un pòt introduire, deliberadament o non, d’errors, d’informacions falsificadas o biaissadas, que demoraràn presentas fins que qualqu'un mai las corregisca.
 En definitiva, coma per cada font d'informacion qu’utilizatz, vos es recomandat de far jogar vòstre  . Per vos permetre de jutjar rapidament de la qualitat d'un article sus Wikipèdia, se conselha de procedir lo pus sovent possible als dos contraròtles seguents : 
 Divèrs avertiments se pòdon plaçar a la cima dels articles per senhalar un desacòrdi de neutralitat, de pertinéncia, o encara de lacunas o d’errors. Wikipèdia es une enciclopèdia « viva » que convida sos legeires a participar a un procès de collaboracion dobèrt. En responsa a vòstres dobtes, la consultacion de las paginas seguentas serà segurament utila :
  :
 Se fornís pas cap de garantida concernent la pertinéncia, la fisabilitat ni la quita legalitat dels sites qu'i menan los ligams extèrnes que pòdon trobar dins las paginas de Wikipèdia.


URL: https://be.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D1%96%D0%BA%D1%96%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D1%8B%D1%8F:%D0%90%D0%B4%D0%BC%D0%BE%D0%B2%D0%B0_%D0%B0%D0%B4_%D0%B0%D0%B4%D0%BA%D0%B0%D0%B7%D0%BD%D0%B0%D1%81%D1%86%D1%96

Content: 
 Нягледзячы на тое, што карыстальнікі могуць выпраўляць памылкі або памылковыя даныя, яны не абавязаны гэтага рабіць. Таму ўся інфармацыя падаецца без гарантыі карыснасці для любой мэты або прыдатнасці для любога выкарыстання.
 Ніхто з аўтараў, удзельнікаў, спонсараў, адміністратараў, аператараў ды асоб, якія яшчэ як-небудзь звязаны з Вікіпедыяй, не адказвае за з’яўленне недакладнай інфармацыі, а таксама за выкарыстоўванне Вамі даных, якія ўтрымліваюцца на гэтых веб-старонках або на веб-старонках, на якія яны спасылаюцца.


URL: https://nn.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Atterhald

Content: Nynorsk Wikipedia er eit oppslagsverk som ligg tilgjengeleg på Internett. Innhaldet er ope, noko som vil seie at det blir skapt av ei frivillig samanslutning av einskildpersonar og -grupper, som utviklar ein felles ressurs av menneskeleg kunnskap. 
 Prosjektreglane tillèt kvar og ein med internettsamband og ein nettlesar å endre på innhaldet som finst her. Difor er det som står i Wikipedia ikkje nødvendigvis gjennomgått av profesjonelle med spesialkunnskap innanfor dei ulike områda, som er naudsynt for å sikre fullstendige, presise og pålitelege opplysingar.
 Ingen av forfattarane, bidragsytarane, sponsorane, administratorane, systemoperatørane eller nokre andre med tilknyting til Wikipedia kan gjerast ansvarleg for at det finst unøyaktig informasjon, eller for andre sin bruk av dei opplysningane som ligg på desse nettsidene eller som blir nådd via lenkjer derfrå.
 Dei som har behov for presis rådgjeving – til dømes medisinsk, juridisk eller økonomisk – er bedne om å oppsøkja ein kunnig som har rett til å drive ei verksemd eller som har spesialkunnskap på det relevante fagområdet.
 Ver venleg å sørgje for at du forstår at opplysningane her er stilte gratis til rådvelde for frivillig bruk, og at inga form for avtale eller kontrakt er oppretta mellom deg og korkje eigarar eller andre brukarar av denne nettstaden, eigarane av lagringsplassen der innhaldet ligg, den einskilde Wikipedia-bidragsytaren, prosjektadministratoren, systemoperatøren eller nokon annan person i tilslutning til dette prosjektet eller systerprosjekt som kan gje grunnlag for å rette krav mot dei. Du blir tildelt eit avgrensa bruksløyve til å kopiere kva som helst av innhald frå denne nettstaden, men det skaper ikkje og impliserer ikkje noko kontraktsmessig eller utanomkontraktsleg ansvar for Wikipedia eller nokre av representantane deira, medlemmer, organisatorar eller andre brukarar.
 Det finst ingen avtale eller forståing mellom deg og Wikipedia kring bruk av innhaldet eller endring av innhaldet utover    og   (GFDL),  på same viset er det ingen knytt til Wikipedia som kan stillast til ansvar viss nokon har endra, redigert eller fjerna informasjon som du har lagt inn i Wikipedia.


URL: https://zh-min-nan.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Bi%C3%A1n-chek_seng-b%C3%AAng

Content:  -   -   -   -  
  sī lōe-iông khai-hòng ê chāi-soàⁿ ê pek-kho-choân-su, i sī iû kò-jîn hām thoân-thé chì-goān ha̍p-chok khai-hoat ê jîn-lūi tì-sek ê kiōng-iú chu-goân. Chit-ê kè-ōe ê thé-hē ún-chún só͘-ū-lâng thàu-kòe bāng-lō͘ liân-chiap lâi siu-kái i-ê lōe-iông, pēng bô it-tēng iû jīm-hô siong-koan léng-he̍k ê choan-ka hām choan-gia̍p jîn-oân sím-cha kòe, só͘-í Wikipedia mā bô-hoat-tō͘ pó-chèng kā lí thê-kiong oân-siān, chèng-khak, khó-khò ê sìn-sit.
 Che pēng bô tāi-piáu kóng, lí tī Wikipedia lāi chhōe bô ū-kè-ta̍t kap chèng-khak ê sìn-sit, chí-sī chhiáⁿ chù-ì  . Jīm-hô te̍k-tēng bûn-chiuⁿ ê lōe-iông lóng ū khó-lêng tī chòe-kīn pī siu-kái, phò-hoāi ia̍h siong-koan léng-he̍k jīn-ti chōng-hóng bô-kāng ê lâng keng-piàn. chhiáⁿ chù-ì, toā-to-sò͘ ê kî-thaⁿ pek-kho-choân-su ia̍h chham-khó chok-phín mā ū  .
 Tī goán siā-kûn lāi oa̍h-tāng ê pian-chi̍p-chiá ē sú-iōng   kap   ke-si lâi kàm-sī sin ê kap siu-kái ê lōe-iông. Put-kò, Wikipedia pēng bô phó͘-phiàn siū-tio̍h tông-hâng ê phêng-sím; sui-jiân tho̍k-chiá ē-tàng siu-kái chhò-gō͘ he̍k-chiá chham-ú hui-chèng-sek ê  , tān-sī in pēng bô hoat-lu̍t gī-bū án-ne chò, só͘-í lín tī chia tit-tio̍h ê só͘-ū sìn-sit lóng bô tùi chiam-tùi te̍k-tēng bo̍k-te̍k ia̍h it-poaⁿ sú-iōng ê sek-iōng-sèng thê-kiong jīm-hô àm-sī ê pó-chèng. Tio̍h-sǹg sī í-keng iû tông-hâng phêng-sím thong-kòe ia̍h keng-kòe   phêng-soán kòe-têng ê bûn-chiuⁿ, iu-goân khó-lêng tī lí liû-lám chêng chiah siu-kái kòe.
 .
 请确认您了解到，您从这里所获得的信息都是自由、免费的，而且您没有与任何人有契约或合同关系，无论是本站的使用者、所有者、服务器提供商、任何维基百科参与者个人、管理员，还是其他任何与本计划及相关计划有直接或间接关系的个人或团体。在一个有限许可之下，您可以从本站复制任何内容，但这并不意味着维基百科或它的代理人、成员、组织者或其他用户对其承担任何契约性的或契约以外的责任。
 在 （CC-BY-SA）及 （GFDL）之外， 没有协议与使用和修改这些信息有关联；维基百科上也没有任何人应对修改、编辑或移除你张贴在维基百科或其相关计划的任何信息负责。
 维基百科条目中使用或提及的任何商标（包括服务商标、集体商标），或是设计权以及提及的其他权利，都属于其对应所有者的财产。维基百科条目的原作者在此根据CC-BY-SA和GFDL许可方案使用这些商标，但这并不意味着您也可以为相同或类似目的使用。除非另有说明，否则维基百科或维基媒体基金会不会与任何此类权利的所有人存在关联，所以也无法授权您使用任何受到保护的内容。您在使用任何此类或类似无形财产时需要自担风险。
 维基百科包含可确认身份的在世或最近过世的人的传记。在某些司法管辖区，有关 的法律限制生者或最近去世的人的图像的使用，并独立于这些图像的著作权状态。在使用这些类型的内容之前，请确保与你的使用意图相关的法律授予你使用该内容的权利。 
 请注意将您在这里所找到的信息发布出去有可能会违反您所在国家或司法管辖区的法律。维基百科的数据库都是储存在位于美国的服务器中，因而任何内容都受到当地法律和美国联邦法律的保护。您所在国家或司法管辖区的法律有可能没有对相同种类的言论和发行进行保护。维基百科并不鼓励任何人触犯法律，因此如果您链接到此域名或使用、复制或转载本站包含的信息，维基百科无法为可能带来的违反此类法律的行为负责。
 如果您需要具体的建议（例如在医学、法律和风险管理方面），请咨询一名注册或在该领域有能力的专业人士。


URL: https://bn.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A6%89%E0%A6%87%E0%A6%95%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%AA%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%A1%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%AF%E0%A6%BC%E0%A6%BE:%E0%A6%B8%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%A7%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%B0%E0%A6%A3_%E0%A6%A6%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%AC%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%A4%E0%A7%8D%E0%A6%AF%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%97

Content: 
উইকিপিডিয়া হচ্ছে ইন্টারনেটভিত্তিক উন্মুক্ত বা বিনামূল্যের বিষয়বস্তু বিশিষ্ট সহযোগিতামূলক কর্মকাণ্ডের দ্বারা তৈরি একটি বিশ্বকোষ। অর্থাৎ, এখানে স্বেচ্ছাসেবক সংগঠন বা কোনো গোষ্ঠী বা সম্পূর্ণ কোনো একক ব্যক্তি জ্ঞানের সাধারণ উৎসগুলো থেকে মানুষের জ্ঞানের বিকাশে সহায়তা করে থাকেন। এই প্রকল্পের পরিচালনা পদ্ধতি ইন্টারনেট সংযোগ আছে এমন যে কাউকে কোনো নিবন্ধ থেকে তার বিষয়বস্তু মুছে ফেলার ক্ষমতা দেয়। প্রসঙ্গত উল্লেখ্য যে, আপনাকে—পূর্ণাঙ্গ, নির্ভুল বা নির্ভরযোগ্য তথ্য সরবরাহ করার জন্য এখানে থাকা কোনো নিবন্ধের কোনো তথ্য বা বিষয়বস্তু নিয়মিত নিরীক্ষণ বা পুনঃনিরীক্ষণ করা হয় না। এমনকি বিশেষজ্ঞের দ্বারা বিষয়বস্তু যাচাইও করা হয় না।
 একথার অর্থ এই নয় যে, আপনি উইকিপিডিয়াতে প্রয়োজনীয় ও নির্ভুল তথ্য পাবেন না; বরং বেশিরভাগ ক্ষেত্রে আপনি তা পাবেন। যদিও   কোনো নিবন্ধের বিষয়বস্তু বা এর অংশবিশেষ সাম্প্রতিককালে পরিবর্তন হতে পারে অথবা ঐ বিষয়ে জ্ঞানের ঘাটতি আছে বা ঐ তথ্যগুলো রাখতে চান না—এমন কারো দ্বারা ধ্বংস বা মুছে ফেলা হতে পারে। উল্লেখ্য, অন্যান্য বিশ্বকোষ ও গ্রহণযোগ্য কার্যক্রমেরও এই ধরণের   রয়েছে।
 নিবন্ধের নির্ভরযোগ্য সংস্করণ বের করার উপর আমরা গুরুত্ব আরোপ করি। আমাদের সক্রিয় সম্পাদক সম্প্রদায় নতুন এবং পরিবর্তনশীল বিষয়বস্তু নিরীক্ষণ করতে   এবং   মত সরঞ্জামগুলো ব্যবহার করে থাকেন৷ যদিও উইকিপিডিয়ায় আনুষ্ঠানিকভাবে নিবন্ধ পু্নঃনিরীক্ষণের কোনো কাজ করে না, কিন্তু পাঠকগণ ভুল সংশোধন ও   মত কাজগুলো অনিয়মিতভাবে চালিয়ে যান। এটা করার জন্য তাঁদের কোনো আইনগত দায়দায়িত্ব নেই। এজন্য নিবন্ধগুলো কোনো উদ্দেশ্যেই আপনাকে মানের ব্যাপারে কোনো নিশ্চয়তা দেবে না। এমন কী যে নিবন্ধগুলো নিয়মিত খুঁটিয়ে দেখা হয় বা অনানুষ্ঠানিকভাবে পু্নঃনিরীক্ষণ চলে অথবা যেগুলো  , সেগুলোর ব্যাপারেও কোনো নিশ্চয়তা উইকিপিডিয়া দেয় না, কারণ আপনি দেখার ঠিক আগেই সেগুলো ভুলভাবে সম্পাদিত হতে পারে।
 
 অনুগ্রহপূর্বক নিশ্চিত হোন যে, এখানে যেসকল তথ্য দেওয়া হয়েছে সেগুলো আপনাকে বিনামূল্যে সরবরাহ করা হয়েছে এবং আপনার ও এই ওয়েবসাইটের মালিক বা ব্যবহারকারীদের মধ্যে কোনো চুক্তি স্বাক্ষরিত হয়নি। সার্ভারের মালিকপক্ষ সার্ভারটি যেখানে অবস্থিত সেখানে অবস্থান করেন। এই প্রকল্পের বা কোনো সহপ্রকল্পের কোনো প্রশাসক, অবদানকারী অথবা অন্যকেউ তাঁদের বিরুদ্ধে আপনার কোনো দাবির সাথে   আপনাকে এই ওয়েবসাইট থেকে যেকোনো কিছু সীমিতভাবে কপি করার স্বাধীনতা দেওয়া হয়েছে; এটি উইকিপিডিয়ার কোনো অংশ বা এর মুখপাত্র, সদস্য, সংগঠক বা কোনো ব্যবহারকারীর সাথে কোনো চুক্তিভিত্তিক বা অচুক্তিভিত্তিক দায়বদ্ধতার সৃষ্টি করেনি।
  (CC-BY-SA) ও   (GFDL)-এর আওতায় উইকিপিডিয়া থেকে প্রাপ্ত কোনো তথ্য ব্যবহার ও পরিবর্তনের অধিকার আপনার রয়েছে, কিন্তু তা কখনোই   উইকিপিডিয়া ও উইকিপিডিয়ার অন্যান্য সহযোগী প্রকল্পের সাথে সংশ্লিষ্ট কেউ, উইকিপিডিয়ায় আপনার অবদানকৃত কোনো তথ্য বা বিষয়বস্তুর কোনোরকম পরিবর্তন, সম্পাদনা বা মুছে ফেলার ব্যাপারে দায়বদ্ধ নন।
 উইকিপিডিয়াতে প্রদর্শিত, উল্লেখিত বা উদ্ধৃত কোনো ট্রেডমার্ক, সার্ভিস মার্ক, কালেকটিভ মার্ক, নকশার স্বত্ত্ব তাঁদের নিজ নিজ সম্মানিত স্বত্বাধিকারীদের সম্পত্তি। উইকিপিডিয়ায় এগুলোর ব্যবহার এমন ইঙ্গিত সূচিত করে না যে, CC-BY-SA বা GFDL লাইসেন্সের আওতায় আপনি সেগুলো, তথ্যগত বা এধরনের কোনো ব্যবহার ব্যতীত অন্য কোনো ব্যক্তিগত উদ্দেশ্যে ব্যবহার করতে পারবেন। যদি না উইকিপিডিয়া এবং উইকিমিডিয়া ওয়েবসাইটের সাথে তাঁরা কোনো ভাবে সংযুক্ত, তাঁদের দ্বারা অনুমোদিত বা তাঁরা এধরনের অধিকার সংরক্ষণ করেন। অন্যথায় উইকিপিডিয়া সংরক্ষিত বিষয়ের ওপর কোনো অধিকার স্বীকার করে না। আপনাকে এধরনের ব্যবসায়িক সম্পত্তি নিজের ঝুঁকিতে ব্যবহার করতে হবে।
 উইকিপিডিয়াতে এমন বিষয় থাকতে পারে যা এমন কোনো ব্যক্তিকে নির্দেশ করছেন, যিনি সুপরিচিত এবং তিনি বেঁচে বা মারা গিয়ে থাকতে পারেন। যদি কপিরাইট মুক্ত না থাকে, তবে এসকল জীবিত বা সম্প্রতি মৃত কোনো ব্যক্তির ছবি ব্যবহারের ক্ষেত্র কিছু বিচারব্যবস্থায়   দ্বারা সংরক্ষিত। এধরনের বিষয়বস্তু ব্যবহারের পূর্বে নিশ্চিত হয়ে নিন যে, যেভাবে ব্যবহার করতে চান, সেভাবে বিষয়টি ব্যবহারের অধিকার আপনার আছে।  
 উইকিপিডিয়ায় প্রদর্শিত তথ্যসমূহ আপনি যেখানে এই তথ্য দেখছেন, সেখানকার বিচারব্যবস্থা অনুযায়ী আইন লঙ্ঘনীয় হতে পারে। উইকিপিডিয়ার তথ্যসমূহ     অঙ্গরাজ্যের একটি সার্ভারে সংরক্ষিত এবং এটি সেখানকার আঞ্চলিক ও ফেডারাল আইন অনুযায়ী সংরক্ষণ করা হয়। আপনার দেশের আইন হয়ত সেখানকার আইনের সাথে সাদৃশ্যপূর্ণ হবে না। উইকিপিডিয়া আইন লঙ্ঘন করাকে সমর্থন বা উৎসাহিত করে না; তাই এই ডোমেইনের বিভিন্ন লিঙ্কে থাকা তথ্যসমূহে আপনি নতুন কিছু সংযুক্ত, ব্যবহার, বণ্টন, পুনরুৎপাদন বা পুনঃপ্রকাশ করার কারণে কোনো আইন লঙ্ঘনের দায়দায়িত্ব উইকিপিডিয়া গ্রহণ করবে না।
 আপনার যদি কোনো সুনির্দিষ্ট পরামর্শের প্রয়োজন হয়, উদাহরণস্বরূপ: চিকিৎসা সম্বন্ধীয়, আইনগত, অর্থনৈতিক অথবা ঝুঁকি ব্যবস্থাপনা বিষয়ক; অনুগ্রহপূর্বক সংশ্লিষ্ট বিষয়ে নিবন্ধিত পেশাদার বা বিশেষজ্ঞের শরণাপন্ন হোন।


URL: https://no.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Generelle_forbehold

Content:  er en   som ligger tilgjengelig på  . Innholdet er åpent, det vil si at det skapes av en frivillig sammenslutning av enkeltpersoner og grupper, som utvikler en felles ressurs av menneskelig viten. Strukturen tillater enhver å endre på det innholdet som finnes her. Derfor er det som står i Wikipedia ikke nødvendigvis gjennomgått av profesjonelle med spesialkunnskap innenfor de ulike områder, som er nødvendige for å sikre fullstendige, presise og pålitelige opplysninger.
 Dette betyr ikke at man ikke kan finne mange verdifulle og nøyaktige opplysninger i Wikipedia, men   Opplysningene kan være forandret, vandalisert eller endret av noen med mangelfulle kunnskaper.
 Informasjonen på Wikipedia stilles gratis og frivillig til rådighet, og det etableres ingen form for avtale eller kontrakt som kan begrunne rettskrav fra brukerne av informasjonen direkte mot eierne av dette nettstedet, eierne av tjenerne det ligger på, de enkelte bidragsytere til Wikipedia, prosjektets administratorer, systemoperatører eller noen andre som   dette prosjektet eller dets søsterprosjekter.
 Du har en begrenset rett til å kopiere informasjon fra Wikipedia. Dette skaper ikke og det omfatter ikke noen kontraktslige eller utenomkontraktslige forpliktelser for Wikipedia, eller for noen av dets representanter, medlemmer, organisatorer eller andre brukere.
 Opplysninger som finnes på Wikipedia kan stride mot lovene i det landet eller rettsområdet hvor man ser disse opplysninger fra. Wikipedia oppfordrer ikke til lovovertredelse, men da informasjonen er lagret i delstaten Florida i USA, vedlikeholdes de med henvisning til den beskyttelse som sikres av   grunnlovs første tillegg og av FNs  .
 , da det er en frivillig sammenslutning av enkeltpersoner, som fritt har utviklet den for å skape forskjellige åpne ressurser av utdannelsesmessig, kulturell og informativ art på internettet.   og det finnes   angående bruk eller endring av opplysningene ut over  . Likeledes er ingen bidragsytere eller andre tilknyttet Wikipedia ansvarlig hvis noen skulle endre, redigere, modifisere eller fjerne noen av de opplysninger enkeltpersoner måtte legge inn på Wikipedia eller noen av dens tilknyttede prosjekter.
 Takk for at du har brukt tid på å lese denne siden.


URL: https://ba.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%8F:%D0%AF%D1%83%D0%B0%D0%BF%D0%BB%D1%8B%D0%BB%D1%8B%D2%A1%D1%82%D0%B0%D0%BD_%D0%B1%D0%B0%D1%88_%D1%82%D0%B0%D1%80%D1%82%D1%8B%D1%83

Content: , ирекмәндәр тарафынан яҙылған, кешелектең барлыҡ белемен туплаған, асыҡ эстәлекле   -энциклопедия. Интернетҡа инергә мөмкинлеге булған һәр кем уның эстәлеген үҙгәртә ала. Бында килтерелгән мәғлүмәт, ошо өлкәлә тулы белем бирерлек белгестәр тарафынан тикшерелмәгән булыуы мөмкин – шуны иғтибарығыҙҙан сығармағыҙ.
 Википедиялағы бөтә мәғлүмәт дөрөҫ түгел тип ҡабул итергә ярамай, шулай ҙа   Мәҡәләне уҡыған ваҡытта кемдер уны үҙгәртеп эшләүе мөмкин.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Contributions/2601:1C2:1A00:2B5:E87D:59A4:C2B1:A08A

Content: 

URL: https://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:%E5%85%8D%E8%B2%AC%E4%BA%8B%E9%A0%85

Content: 
 
 本サイトは、あなたに対して何も保証しません。本サイトの関係者（他の利用者も含む）は、あなたに対して一切責任を負いません。あなたが、本サイトを利用（閲覧、投稿、外部での再利用など全てを含む）する場合は、自己責任で行う必要があります。
 ウィキペディア (Wikipedia) は、無償のボランティアの参加者の貢献によって執筆、編集されている百科事典であり、その編集方針、百科事典作成プロジェクトとしての運営方針などもボランティアの議論によって決められています。プロジェクトへの参加資格の制限はなく、参加者には一定期間または一定量の貢献をすることなどの義務はありません。さらに、ウィキペディアでは、ウィキウィキウェブとよばれるシステムを採用することによって、ほぼ全てのページが、いつでも、誰にでも書き換えられるような状態にしてあります。
 ウィキペディアで使用しているソフトウェア は、無償のボランティアの貢献によって作成・改良されているものです。また、ウィキペディアの運営資金は、有志の寄付によって提供されており、アメリカ合衆国フロリダ州にある非営利団体「 」を通じて管理・提供されています。そして、ウィキペディアのサーバの大部分は、アメリカ合衆国フロリダ州にあります。
 ウィキペディアは200以上の言語にまたがって展開される であり、その参加者も世界中の多くの国々において活動しています。URLが   に始まる諸ページからなる本サイトは、そのウィキペディアの1つです。もちろん、日本語版の参加者にも、日本以外の世界のさまざまな地域から参加している人も大勢います。
 最後になりましたが、ウィキペディアでは、CC-BY-SA4.0 InternationalおよびGFDLを採用することによって、ウィキペディアが提供するコンテンツについて、公正な「引用」以上の自由な改変・再利用を容易にしています。つまり、著作権関係の煩雑な手続きを、 の概念によって簡略化しようというものです。
 
 
 
 本サイトのコンテンツに記載された会社名・製品名は、各法人または個人の登録商標または商標です。百科事典としての可読性を保つため、文中での®記号、™記号は省略しています。
 
 GFDL Version 1.2 の 第1項 (section 1) 10段落目にある “Warranty Disclaimers” （直訳すれば「保証否認声明書」）となるこの文書は、GFDLにおける免責を補完します。
 このページは、本サイトのみに適用されるもので、他のウィキメディア・プロジェクト（ウィキペディアの他の言語版やウィキブックスなどの姉妹プロジェクト）については、各々が提示する文書がありますので、それに従ってください。
 特に、それら他のウィキメディア・プロジェクトから翻訳されたページについては、元のプロジェクトで提供されている「免責事項」規定も合わせて適用する必要があります。他言語版ウィキペディアの「免責事項」は本ページからの他言語リンクを参照してください。そのほかのウィキメディア･プロジェクトの免責事項は、英語版の “Disclaimers” に相当する位置のリンクをたどってください。


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roland_Bartetzko

Content:  (born 1970) is a former German soldier and convicted terrorist who fought with the   in the   (1992–1995) and the   in the   (1998–1999).
 In 2001, Bartetzko orchestrated a    outside a Yugoslav government office in  , killing one   civilian, and injuring four others. After his   was found on the detonator, he was arrested and charged with  ,   and  , becoming the first Westerner to be indicted on these charges in post-war Kosovo.
 The following year, he was convicted on all counts by an international court under the supervision of the   (UNMIK), and sentenced to 23 years' imprisonment. Bartetzko's sentence was later commuted to 20 years' imprisonment. He was released on   in 2015. He has maintained his innocence and claims he was framed by UNMIK. He wrote a book in 2018.
 Bartetzko was born in the town of   near   in 1970.  He joined the   in 1987.  By the time he was dishonorably discharged from the Bundeswehr in 1992, he had reached the rank of   ( :  ). In 1992, he travelled to the   to fight in the  , where he joined the   (HVO).  
 "To be able to call myself a soldier, I thought I had to fight, otherwise, I could have joined a paintball club." Bartetzko was one of approximately 100 German citizens who volunteered to fight with the HVO, most of whom were  . Bartetzko has denied being a  .  He was assigned to the Ante "Bruno" Bušić Brigade, which fought the   (ARBiH) He also fought during the  . 
 Bartetzko left the HVO in April 1994, citing the "very cruel scenes, which could be described as atrocities," as he witnessed being committed by his fellow HVO fighters.  He subsequently volunteered to fight with the   and participated in   in the closing stages of the Bosnian War. Upon returning to Germany, Bartetzko was arrested for allegedly stealing a woman's handbag. Following the outbreak of the   in February 1998, Bartetzko travelled to  ,  . He subsequently crossed the Albanian–Yugoslav border into Kosovo and joined the   (KLA) as a volunteer. During his time with the KLA, he assumed the    , the eighth month of the  . 
 On 18 April 2001, a   exploded near the   in  , the headquarters of the Yugoslav passport office in Kosovo, killing one civilian and wounding four others, including a woman who was left with serious injuries.  Yugoslav government official Aleksandar Petrović was later identified as the man killed in the bombing. The device used in the attack was filled with metal fragments.  According to the   (UNMIK)   Andrea Angeli, it contained around 10 kilograms (22 lb) of explosive. "For the future of Kosovo it could not be a more tragic incident," UNMIK police spokesperson Derek Chappell stated. "This is an attack against everything that people trying to build this country are working for." 
 The crime scene was quickly secured by UNMIK police and     personnel. UNMIK and KFOR soon discovered the detonator that had been used in the attack and that Bartetzko's   were on it.  Bartetzko was arrested several days after the bombing.  He was charged with  ,   and  .  He was the first Westerner to be charged with murder in post-war Kosovo. 
 In 2001, Bartetzko was   from the Bundeswehr under Paragraph 55 (5) of the Soldiers' Act, which is enforced when a soldier has "culpably violated their duty to serve" or "seriously endangered the military order or the reputation of the Bundeswehr".  Bartetzko's trial commenced in February 2002; he pleaded not guilty.  The trial was held under heavy security, with   police officers wearing   and armed with  .  The prosecution argued that the bombing was a "revenge attack" stemming from Bartetzko's "hatred of Serbs". On 10 May 2002, Bartetzko was convicted on all counts and sentenced to 23 years' imprisonment. 
 Bartetzko was incarcerated at the   in western Kosovo. He filed an appeal against the first-instance verdict, and on 12 November 2002, the Supreme Court of Kosovo reduced his sentence from 23 years to 20 years. In 2009, Bartetzko filed a request for interim measures with the Constitutional Court of Kosovo, alleging violations of his right to effective legal remedy, right to appeal, and human rights guaranteed by the  . In August 2010, the motion was rejected by the Constitutional Court of Kosovo. 
 Bartetzko was released on   in 2015. Upon his release, he relocated to   and found work providing legal services to a local media company, having studied law while imprisoned. In 2018, Bartetzko published a   called ' .' He is an active contributor to the question-and-answer website  , where he discusses his wartime experiences.
 He continues to maintain that he was not responsible for the bombing of the Yugoslav passport office and has accused UNMIK of framing him.  In 2022, Bartetzko went to   to provide logistical support for the Ukrainian   amidst the   of the country. 


URL: https://ne.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AA%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%A1%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%BE:%E0%A4%B8%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%AE%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%A8%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%AF_%E0%A4%85%E0%A4%B8%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B5%E0%A5%80%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%B0%E0%A5%8B%E0%A4%95%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%A4%E0%A4%BF

Content: विकिपिडिया एक वेब आधारित सहयोग-प्राप्त ज्ञानकोष हो,अर्थात्, यो मानव ज्ञानको साधारण संसाधन विकसित गर्नका लागि व्यक्तिहरु तथा समूहहरुको एक स्वैच्छिक संगठन हो। यस परियोजनाको संरचना अंतर्जाल संयोजनका साथ कुनै पनि व्यक्तिलाई यसका सामाग्रीहरुलाई परिवर्तन गर्ने अनुमति दिइन्छ। कृपया यो ध्यान राख्नुहोस् कि यो आवश्यक छैन कि यहाँ पाइएको सामाग्रीको विशेषज्ञहरु द्वारा सही तथा विश्वसनीय जानकारी दिनका लागि समीक्षा गरिएको छ।
 यसको यो तात्पर्य होइन कि विकिपिडियामा मूल्यवान तथा सही जानकारी पाइदैन ; अधिकांशतः यो सही नै हुनेछ। हुनत,   कुनै पनि लेखको सामाग्रीको हटाउन सकिन्छ, उत्पातको शिकार हुन सक्छ अथवा यस्तो व्यक्ति द्वारा बदलिन सक्छ  जो उ संगत क्षेत्रमा ज्ञानको अवस्थाले भिन्न विचार राख्न सक्छ। ध्यान दिनुहोस कि अधिक तर अन्य विकिपिडिया तथा सन्दर्भ कार्यहरुमा पनि   हुन्छन।


URL: https://nds-nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:V%C3%B6%C3%A4rbehold

Content: Disse webstee wörden an-ebeujen deur de   (Wikimedia-stichting), in-eschreven bie   onder t nummer N03000005323. De Wikimedia Foundation is n stichting naor t recht van de Amerikaanse staot  . De bedenker van Wikipedie is  .
 Disse   wörden uuteindelik eschreven deur t publiek. Allewel zwat iederene die meedöt probeert um naor sekuur informatieve artikels te schrieven, kan der, wat dat de inhoud dervan angeet, gien garansie egeven wörden. Iederene die zien eigen kennelik as deskundig ziet, mag wiezigingen in de tekste anbrengen. Wel zal n dudelike fout in t algemeen aordig gauw opvallen en deur de aandere deelnemers verbeterd wörden. Zo as de ervaoring van de deelnemers leert, is der de neiging dat artikels alsmar langerder en nauwkeuriger wörden; aof en toe zal n terogval kunnen véúrkoemen.
 t Is dan oek verstaandig um naost disse ensyklopedie oek aandere naoslagwarken of spesialistiese boeken te raodplegen.
 A'j n   zien, ma'j t voort verbeteren, of - a'j niet zovere gaon willen - n opmarking hierover maken op de   die bie elke pagina heurt. We willen joe oek grege anbussen um dit te doon.
 De vriewilligers die disse ensyklopedie schrieven (en dat is t publiek, dus oek jiezelf) bin niet ansprakelik veur de juustheid van de egeven informasie. Ze kunnen zelfs niet garanderen dat de auteurs zörgvuldig te wark egaon bin bie t formuleren van de artikels. Gebruuk van de informasie is geheel vrie, mer wel op eigen risiko.
 Der bin gebrukers ( ) die extra meugelikheen op technies nivo hebben op disse webstee. Zo as t vortdoon van pagina's, beveiligen van pagina's en t ontnemen van schriefrechten an gebrukers. Dit bin meugelikheen die gewone gebrukers niet hebben. Disse groep vriewilligers bin niet de webmeisters mer eerder de huusbewaorders van Wikipedie. t Is n uutvoerende funksie. t Dagelikse bestuur de nds-nl-wiki geet feitelik uut van de gemeenschap van de nds-nl-wiki. 
 Op juridies nivo is de   de eindverantwoordelike. 
 As der volgens joe n probleem is, neem dan eerst kontakt op mit beheerders van de nds-nl-wiki. A'j n klachte sturen willen dan kan dat in t Engels, naor:
 Alle teksten op Wikipedie vallen onder de  -lisensie. A'j n stuk zien dat argens aanders van overeneumen is, zonder dat der toestemming van de auteursrechtbezitters egeven is, meld t dan of wiezig de tekste zelf.


URL: https://az.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikipediya:M%C9%99suliyy%C9%99td%C9%99n_imtina

Content: Vikipediya onlayn açıq məzmunlu bir ensiklopediyadır; yəni insan biliklərinin ümumi mənbəyini inkişaf etdirmək üçün çalışan fərdlərin və qrupların könüllü birliyidir. Layihənin quruluşu, İnternet bağlantısı olan hər kəsin məzmununu dəyişdirməsinə imkan verir. Burada yazılanlar tam, dəqiq və ya etibarlı məlumat vermək üçün tələb olunan təcrübəyə sahib insanlar tərəfindən mütəmadi olaraq yoxlanılmır.
 Bu Vikipediyada dəyərli və dəqiq məlumat tapa bilməyəcəyiniz demək deyil; Bununla birlikdə,  . Hər hansı bir məqalənin məzmunu bu həmin mövzuda məlumatı olmayan biri tərəfindən dəyişdirilmiş ola bilər. Diqqət yetirin ki, digər ensiklopediyaların və istinad əsərlərinin əksəriyyətində də diskleymer var.
 Aktiv redaktor icmamız yeni və dəyişən məzmunu izləmək üçün   və   kimi vasitələrdən istifadə edir. Bununla birlikdə, Vikipediya məqalələri mütəmadi olaraq yoxlanılmır; oxucular səhvləri düzəldə bilərlər, bunu etmək üçün qanuni bir vəzifələri yoxdur və buna görə burada oxunan bütün məlumatlar hər hansı bir məqsəd üçün uyğunluq zəmanəti və ya hər hansı bir şəkildə istifadə edilmir.
  prosessindən keçən məqalələr yoxlanılsada, siz onu oxumamışdan 1 saniyə əvvəl kimsə uyğun olmayan redaktələr edə bilər.
 
 Zəhmət olmasa burada verilən məlumatların açıq şəkildə verildiyini və sizinlə bu saytın sahibləri və ya istifadəçiləri, yerləşdiyi serverlərin sahibləri, Vikipediya istifadəçiləri, hər hansı bir layihə idarəçisi və ya hər hansı bir şəkildə bu layihə ilə əlaqəli olan hər kəs və ya birbaşa onlara qarşı iddialarınıza tabe olan digər layihələr arasında hər hansı bir razılaşma və ya müqavilə bağlanmadığını başa düşdüyünüzdən əmin olun. Bu saytdan bir şey götürmək üçün sizə məhdud bir lisenziya verilir; bu Vikipediya üzvlərində, təşkilatçılarında və ya digər istifadəçilərində hər hansı birində müqavilə və ya müqavilədənkənar məsuliyyət yaratmır və ya nəzərdə tutmur.
 
 Vikipediya ensiklopediyasının məqalələrində bəhs edilən, istifadə edilən və ya istinad edilən ticarət nişanları, xidmət markaları, kollektiv markalar, dizayn hüquqları və ya oxşar hüquqlardan hər hansı biri müvafiq sahiblərinə məxsusdur. Buradakı istifadəsi, bunları bu Vikipediya məqalələrinin orijinal müəllifləri tərəfindən CC-BY-SA və GFDL lisenziyalaşdırma sxemləri çərçivəsində nəzərdə tutulmuş eyni və ya oxşar məlumat istifadəsi xaricində hər hansı bir məqsəd üçün istifadə edə biləcəyinizi nəzərdə tutmur. Başqa bir hal göstərilmədiyi təqdirdə, Vikipediya və Vikimedia saytları bu cür hüquq sahibləri tərəfindən təsdiqlənmir və ya onlarla əlaqəli deyildir və bu şəkildə Vikipediya, başqa cür qorunan materiallardan istifadə etmək hüququ verə bilməz. Hər hansı bir və ya buna bənzər qeyri-rəsmi əmlakdan istifadə etməyiniz sizin məsuliyyətinizdədir.
 Vikipediyada son zamanlarda yaşayan və ya vəfat etmiş şəxsiyyəti təsvir edə biləcək material var. Yaşayan və ya yaxınlarda vəfat etmiş şəxslərin şəkillərinin istifadəsi, bəzi yurisdiksiyalarda, müəllif hüquqları statusundan asılı olmayaraq şəxsiyyət hüquqları ilə əlaqəli qanunlarla məhdudlaşdırılır. Bu tip məzmundan istifadə etməzdən əvvəl, zəhmət olmasa, istifadə olunma şərtlərinizdə tətbiq olunan qanunlara əsasən istifadə etmək hüququnuzun olduğundan əmin olun.  
 Vikipediyada yazılan məlumatların yayımlanması, bu məlumatları gördüyünüz ölkənin və ya yurisdiksiyanın qanunlarına zidd ola bilər. Vikipediyanın verilənlər bazası Amerika Birləşmiş Ştatlarındakı serverlərdə saxlanılır və yerli və federal qanunlara uyğun olaraq qorunur. Ölkənizdəki və ya yurisdiksiyanızdakı qanunlar eyni distribusiyanı qorumaya və ya icazə verməyə bilər. Vikipediya, hər hansı bir qanun pozuntusunu təşviq etmir və buradakı məlumatları istifadə etməyiniz, çoxaltmanız və ya yenidən yayımlamanız halında bu qanunların pozulmasına görə məsuliyyət daşımır.
 Məsləhətə ehtiyacınız varsa (məsələn, tibbi, hüquqi və ya maliyyə), zəhmət olmasa bu sahədə peşəkar bir mütəxəssisə müraciət edin.
 


URL: https://nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Algemeen_voorbehoud

Content: 

URL: https://gn.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikipet%C3%A3:Arigua_rehegua

Content:  ha'e peteĩ ñe'ẽryrupavẽ   hekosãsóva, péva he'ise, peteĩ tapicha ñemboaty ojapo joajuhápe peteĩ tenda opaite tembikuaa yvypóra pegua. Vikipetã   oheja opa tekove orekóva   ikatu ojehaijey ore kuatiarogue ha jehai. Upévare, eikuaamíkena  .
 Hákatu, upe ndahe'iséi nderehechamo'ãi marandu porã Vikipetãme. Upevére,  . Jehaipy oimeraẽ kuatiaroguépe ikatu ojehaijeykuri,   térã oñemoambuekuri peteĩ tapicháre ha imarandu kuéra ikatu ndaha'éi porã.
 Estamos trabajando sobre la forma de seleccionar y resaltar versiones fiables de los artículos. Nuestra activa comunidad de editores utiliza diversas herramientas sobre los   y las   para vigilar las modificaciones y nuevos contenidos. Sin embargo, Wikipedia no es uniformemente revisada por pares; si bien los lectores pueden corregir errores o eliminar las sugerencias erróneas en una casual  , ellos no tienen obligación legal de hacerlo y, por ende, toda la información que se incluya se hace sin ningún tipo de garantía implícita de aptitud para cualquier fin o uso alguno. Incluso los artículos que han sido aprobados mediante revisiones por pares informales o tras un proceso de votación de   pueden ser más tarde modificados inapropiadamente, justo antes de que usted los lea.
 
 La información contenida en Wikipedia se suministra libremente, sin crear ningún tipo de acuerdo o contrato entre usted y los propietarios o usuarios de este sitio, los propietarios de los servidores en los que este sitio web está alojado, los contribuyentes individuales a Wikipedia, los administradores de cualquier proyecto, los operadores del sistema, ni persona alguna relacionada con este proyecto u otros proyectos hermanos. Se le concede a usted una licencia limitada para copiar cualquier material de este sitio; esa licencia no crea en forma alguna responsabilidad contractual o extracontractual de parte de Wikipedia ni ninguno de sus agentes, miembros, organizadores u otros usuarios.  .
 Este   que cubra el uso o las modificaciones que usted haga respecto de la información, más allá de los términos del esquema de licenciamiento mencionado en el párrafo anterior; nadie en Wikipedia además de usted puede ser considerado responsable de los cambios, alteraciones, modificaciones o eliminaciones de cualquier información que usted mismo realice en Wikipedia o cualquiera de sus proyectos asociados.
 Cualesquiera marcas registradas, marcas de servicio, marcas colectivas, derechos de diseño u otros derechos de propiedad industrial que se mencionan, usan o citan en los artículos o páginas de Wikipedia son propiedad de los respectivos titulares. Su utilización aquí no implica que usted pueda usarlos para otro propósito distinto del uso informativo idéntico o similar al contemplado por los autores originales de los artículos en Wikipedia bajo los términos del  . 
Salvo indicación en contrario, los sitios web de Wikipedia y Wikimedia no están relacionados con los titulares de los citados derechos, y por lo tanto Wikipedia no puede otorgar derecho alguno para el uso de materiales protegidos. El uso que usted haga de esa propiedad inmaterial o similares es exclusivamente bajo su propio riesgo.
 La publicación de la información contenida en Wikipedia podría contravenir las leyes del país o jurisdicción desde donde se accede a la información. La base de datos de Wikipedia está alojada en un servidor situado en el estado de Florida, en los Estados Unidos de América, y es mantenida en referencia a las protecciones garantizadas por las leyes locales y federales de ese país. Las leyes en su país o jurisdicción podrían no proteger o permitir las mismas clases de expresión o distribución. Wikipedia no promueve la violación de ninguna ley; y no puede ser responsabilizada por ninguna violación de tales leyes, en caso de que enlace a este sitio o use, reproduzca o republique la información aquí contenida.
 Salvo indicación de lo contrario, las conclusiones, las interpretaciones y las opiniones expresadas en los artículos de Wikipedia corresponden a sus respectivos autores, y no representan necesariamente el punto de vista de Wikipedia. 
La información suministrada  
 Si necesita asesoramiento específico (por ejemplo, médico, legal, financiero, o de gestión de riesgos), por favor solicite un profesional que cuente con licencia o con conocimientos en la materia.
 
 Por el carácter general,  . Si esto puede suponer un problema, por favor absténgase de su uso. Si es menor de edad, consulte a sus progenitores o tutores legales antes de hacer uso de Wikipedia.


URL: https://azb.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%DB%8C%DA%A9%DB%8C%E2%80%8C%D9%BE%D8%AF%DB%8C%D8%A7:%DA%AF%D8%A6%D9%86%D9%84_%DB%8C%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A7%D9%86%D9%84%D8%A7%D9%85%D8%A7

Content: ویکی‌پدیا آنلاین آچیق مضمونلو بیر بیلیکلیک‌دیر؛ یعنی اینسان بیلیک‌لری‌نین عۆمومی قایناغینی اینکیشاف ائتدیرمک اۆچۆن چالیشان فردلرین و قوروپلارین کؤنۆللۆ بیرلیغی‌دیر. لاییحه‌نین قورولوشو، اینترنت باغلانتی‌سی اولان هر کسین مضمونونو دییشدیرمه‌سینه ایمکان وئریر. بورادا یازیلانلار تام، دقیق و یا اعتیبارلی معلومات وئرمک اۆچۆن طلب اولونان تجروبه‌یه صاحیب اینسانلار طرفیندن داواملی اولاراق یوخلانیلمیر.
 بو ویکی‌پدیادا دَیَرلی و دقیق معلومات تاپا بیلمه‌یه‌جه‌یینیز دئمک دئییل؛ بونونلا بیرلیکده،  . هر هانسی بیر معلوماتین مضمونو بو همین قونودا معلوماتی اولمایان بیری طرفیندن دییشدیرمیش اولا بیلر. دیقّت یئتیرین کی، دیگر بیلیکلیک‌لرین و ایستیناد اثرلری‌نین اکثریتینده ده دیسکلئیمر (یالانلاما) وار.


URL: https://frr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Impressum

Content: 
 „Wikipedia, Di frii Ensiklopedii“ es ön't Nat öner   tö finj, üp Dütsk öner  .
 Des Websir uur fan di   önberen, wat bi dat   öner di Numer N03000005323 iinskrewen es. Di Wikimedia Foundation es en Stifting eeđer't Rocht fan di US-Bundsstaat  . Wan wat tö bisnaki es, da sket Dü des me  . biraili, wat uk di   ön di Sen fan di   es.
 Wan Dü wat fraagi of en Interview maaki wet, da kenst Dü uk hol jen fan di Nuurđfriisk Meaarberers fraagi, biluki diartö   en  .
 Wikipedia es en frii  . Muar au des  Projekt kenst Dü üp di Sir   sa üs iin ön di   lees. Di Biteekning „frii“ meent, dat Wikipedia-Bidrachen   sen. Em mut diareeđer alis priwaat oder kommertsiel binüti, wat em jir fent. Hur'ling dat ginau funktsjoniaret, staant langsen diarbi:   of  .  
Wan di Lir wat hoogstjüüri, ken di diarfuar forskelig Aarten binüti, en dö dit frii. Em skel langsen gur döörlees, hur'ling di Datei friidönen es. Biluki uk  .
 Biluki uk dat   fan di Wikimedia Foundation.
 Wiis sa gur en biluki di   fan di Wikimedia Foundation en di üđer  .
 Ali Wikipedia-Skriiwers fo Biskiir, dat di alis, wat ja tö des Natsir tödö, eeđer jaar beest Weeten en Giweeten āpskriif skel. Wat iin ön di Wikipedia staant, dat heer ein Gimiinskep ütaarbert, en dit kontroliaret uk nemen üs jam salev. Ark Bidrach ken fan arkenjen foranert uur. Senerk Bidrachen, wat sa ütse, üs wan di töögen Rochten (Sa üs Urheber-, Forwertings-, Menskenrochten) gung, ken söner Biskiir iinfach wechmaakit uur. Arkjen staant fuar dat, wat hi skrewen her, gans aliining iin. Di Wikipedia bihalt dat Rocht, olterslemi Skriiwers üttösmit.
 Di Struktuur fan di Wikipedia es iipen. Diaraur ken't pasiari, dat en Bidrach olter ual of somhur forkiirt skrewen es, of dat em ek muar keen ken, hurme di Bidrach töhophangt. Mesken es en Bidrach uk olter kuurt. 
Di ensiklopeedisk Bidrachen ön di Wikipedia skel juu help en liir wat diartö. En Reer skel di ek dö. 
Dat Risiko, wan jen alis liift, wat jir staant, ken di Skriiwers ek draii en di Wikipedia uk ek. 
Biluki diartö uk di   en di  .
 Di Skriiwers, wat   of „Sysop“ nēmt sen, hiir ek tö di Wikipedia. Ja sen Skriiwers, wat muar Rochten fingen haa, aurdat ja me di Technik fan di Wikipedia gur om ken. 
Fuar't miist help des Lir hol en gau, wan't Fraagen jeft of wan wat ek rocht paset.  
Ja sen man ek fuar alis töstendig en haftbaar, wat jir pasiaret.
 Di Önberer fan des Natsir jeft aural Biskiir, dat niin Skelter, Teksti, Musik of üđers nemen uur skel, hur en trērst Mensk Urheberrochten ön heer. 
Bi di Wikipedia uur rocht fuul hoogstjüürt en skrewen. Diaraur ken uk nemen disarfuar üppasi, dat diar ek dach en Skelt of üers diartwesken es, wat diar ek wiis skul. 
Aurdes skel jen, hokens Aarber jir söner di Rochten diarfuar weegit uur, hol Biskiir sii, da uur des Datei metjens ütnemen. 
Di ofitsieli Wai es, des Biskiir hentö jen fan di   (eeđer US-Gisetsi) fan Wikimedia tö stjüüri. 
Fuar't miist es't man efen sa gur of mener swaar, aktiivi Skriiwers en Natpost tö stjüür: Di Adres es  . 
Iin ön des Natpost skel di Adres fan di Sir staan, hur di Dati tö finj es, wat diar ek henjert.


URL: https://bm.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Avertissements_g%C3%A9n%C3%A9raux

Content: 	 
  est une encyclopédie libre, c'est-à-dire une association volontaire d'individus et de groupes qui développent ensemble une source de la connaissance humaine. Sa structure permet à tout individu avec un accès Internet et un navigateur Web de modifier le contenu disponible ici. En conséquence, sachez que rien de ce que vous pouvez trouver ici n'a été nécessairement vérifié par un professionnel compétent dans le domaine en question dans le but de fournir un contenu complet, juste et fiable d'informations sur tous les sujets de Wikipédia.	 
 Ce qui ne veut pas dire que vous ne trouverez aucune information valable et fiable dans Wikipédia, mais que Wikipédia ne peut garantir, d'aucune façon, la validité de l'information disponible ici. Elle peut avoir été récemment modifiée, vandalisée ou altérée par une personne dont l'opinion ne correspond pas à l'état de la connaissance dans le domaine particulier que vous recherchez. Nous travaillons sur des moyens de sélectionner et d'améliorer les meilleures versions de chaque article, toujours sans aucune garantie.


URL: https://an.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Alvertencias_chenerals

Content:   
   


URL: https://mn.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:%D0%95%D1%80%D3%A9%D0%BD%D1%85%D0%B8%D0%B9_%D1%82%D0%B0%D1%82%D0%B3%D0%B0%D0%BB%D0%B7%D0%B0%D0%BB

Content:  нь чөлөөт   юм. „Чөлөөт“ гэдэг нь википедиа дахь өгүүллэгийн агуулга нь лизенцгүй буюу зөвшөөрөлтэйгөөр нийтэд нийтийн сүлжээнд ашиглаж болох агуулга гэсэн утгатай юм.
 Википедиа нь хүний мэдлэгийн санг нэгтгэж, арвижуулахын төлөө, сайн дурын үндсэн дээр нэгдэж хамтран бичдэг, интернэт дэх нэвтэрхий толь юм. Интернэт холболттой хүн бүр энэ төслийн агуулгыг өөрчилж болно. Иймээс энд буй мэдээллийг мэргэжилтнүүд хянаж, үнэн зөв гэдгийг батлаагүй бөгөөд зарим мэдээлэл нь найдвартай бус байж болно.
 Хэдийгээр Википедиа дахь дийлэнхи мэдээлэл үнэ цэнтэй, үнэн зөв байдаг ч гэлээ, Википедиа нь энд буй мэдээлэл үнэн зөв гэсэн баталгааг гаргахгүй. 
 Аливаа хувь нэмэр оруулагчид, спонсорууд, администраторууд, болон бусад Википедиатай холбоотой хүмүүс, Википедиад худал эсвэл гүтгэсэн мэдээлэл гарсан, эсвэл энд байгаа мэдээлэл ба эндээс линк хийгдсэн мэдээллийг ашигласантай холбоотой гарсан ямарваа зүйлд хариуцлага хүлээхгүй.
 Тодорхой мэргэжлийн зөвлөгөө (жишээ нь эмнэлгийн, хуулийн, санхүүгийн, эрсдлийн удирдлага г.м.) авахыг хүсвэл, тухайн чиглэлийн  мэргэжилтэнд хандана уу.


URL: https://as.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A7%B1%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%95%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%AA%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%A1%E0%A6%BF%E0%A6%AF%E0%A6%BC%E0%A6%BE:%E0%A6%B8%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%A7%E0%A6%BE%E0%A7%B0%E0%A6%A3_%E0%A6%A6%E0%A6%BE%E0%A6%AF%E0%A6%BC%E0%A6%B2%E0%A7%81%E0%A6%AA%E0%A7%8D%E0%A6%A4%E0%A6%BF

Content: ৱিকিপিডিয়া এখন অনলাইন মুক্ত-সমল সহযোগিতামূলক বিশ্বকোষ। অৰ্থাত্‍ পৃথিৱীৰ বিভিন্ন প্ৰান্তৰ স্বেচ্ছাসেৱকসকলে মিলিজুলি জ্ঞানৰ ভঁৰাল হিছাপে ইয়াক গঢ়ি তুলিছে। প্ৰকল্পটোৰ গঠনে ইণ্টাৰনেটৰ সুবিধা থকা যিকোনো ব্যক্তিক ইয়াৰ সমল সলনি কৰিবলৈ সুযোগ দিয়ে। মন কৰক যে ইয়াত পোৱা কথাবিলাক বিশেষজ্ঞ ব্যক্তিৰদ্বাৰা পৰীক্ষিত নহ'বও পাৰে, গতিকে তথ্যসমূহ ১০০%ই শুদ্ধ বা সম্পূৰ্ণ বুলি ধৰি লোৱাটো অমূলক।
 তাৰ অৰ্থ এইটো নহয় যে আপুনি ৱিকিপিডিয়াত মূল্যবান আৰু শুদ্ধ তথ্য নাপাবই। তথাপি    কোনোটো প্ৰবন্ধৰ সমল সেই বিষয়বস্তু সম্পৰ্কে জ্ঞান নথকা  বা সেই তথ্যৰ লগত সন্মত নোহোৱা ব্যক্তি এজনে আহি সলাই দিব পাৰে বা খেলিমেলিৰ সৃষ্টি কৰিব পাৰে। উল্লেখযোগ্য যে অন্যান্য প্ৰায় সকলো বিশ্বকোষ আৰু প্ৰসংগ-কৰ্মৰ একেধৰণৰ   আছে।
 প্ৰবন্ধবোৰৰ বিশ্বাসযোগ্য সংস্কৰণ চিনাক্ত কৰিবৰ বাবে আমি চেষ্টা কৰি আছোঁ। আমাৰ সক্ৰিয় সম্পাদকসকলে   আৰু   আদি সঁজুলিৰ জৰিয়তে নতুন আৰু পৰিৱৰ্তিত সমলৰ ওপৰত চকু ৰাখে। কিন্তু ৱিকিপিডিয়াত নিয়মিত পুনৰ্নিৰীক্ষণ কৰা নহয়। যদিও পাঠকসকলে ভুল-ত্ৰুটি শুধৰাব পাৰে আৰু সাধাৰণ   কৰিব পাৰে, তেওঁলোকৰ তেনে কোনো আইনী দায়িত্ব নাই আৰু গতিকে ইয়াত পোৱা সকলো তথ্যৰ যিকোনো ঠাইত ব্যৱহাৰৰ বাবে মানৰ নিশ্চয়তা নাই। আনকি অনানুষ্ঠানিকভাৱে পুনৰ্নিৰীক্ষণ কৰা বা  ও আপুনি চোৱাৰ আগে আগে কাৰোবাৰদ্বাৰা বেয়াকৈ সম্পাদিত হ'ব পাৰে।
 
 অনুগ্ৰহ কৰি নিশ্চিত হৈ লওক যে ইয়ালৈ বৰঙণি আগবঢ়োৱা তথ্যসমূহ বিনামূলীয়াকৈ দিয়া হৈছে; আৰু আপোনাৰ লগত এই চাইটৰ গৰাকী, চাইটৰ ব্যৱহাৰকাৰী, চাইটৰ চাৰ্ভাৰৰ গৰাকী, ৱিকিপিডিয়াৰ গাইগুটীয়া অৱদানকাৰী, প্ৰশাসক বা এই প্ৰকল্পৰ সৈতে যিকোনোভাৱে জড়িত কোনো ব্যক্তিৰে চুক্তি স্বাক্ষৰিত হোৱা নাই। এওঁলোক কোনোৱেই আপোনাৰ দাবীৰ লগত সম্পৰ্কিত নহয়। আপোনাক এই চাইটৰ পৰা যিকোনো কথা কপী কৰাৰ স্বাধীনতা দিয়া হৈছে; ইয়াৰ দ্বাৰা ৱিকিপিডিয়াৰ কোনো সদস্য, এজেণ্ট, সংগঠক বা ব্যৱহাৰকাৰীৰ লগত কোনো চুক্তিভিত্তিক বা অচুক্তিভিত্তিক দায়বদ্ধতাৰ সৃষ্টি কৰা হোৱা নাই।
  (CC-BY-SA) আৰু   (GFDL)ৰ আওতাৰ বাহিৰত এই তথ্যসমূহৰ ব্যৱহাৰ আৰু পৰিৱৰ্তনৰ বাবে  । আপুনি ৱিকিপিডিয়া বা ইয়াৰ সহযোগী প্ৰকল্পত লিখা কোনো তথ্য কোনোবাই সলালে, সম্পাদনা কৰিলে, পৰিৱৰ্তন কৰিলে বা আঁতৰালে ৱিকিপিডিয়াৰ কোনো ব্যক্তি দায়ী নহ'ব।
 ৱিকিপিডিয়াৰ প্ৰবন্ধৰ প্ৰদৰ্শিত, উল্লেখিত বা উদ্ধৃত কোনো ট্ৰেড্‌মাৰ্ক, চাৰ্ভিছ মাৰ্ক, কালেক্‌টিভ মাৰ্ক, ডিজাইন স্বত্ব বা একেধৰণৰ স্বত্ব সেইবোৰৰ নিজ নিজ স্বত্বাধিকাৰীৰ সম্পত্তি। সেইবোৰ ইয়াত ব্যৱহাৰ হোৱাৰ অৰ্থ এই নহয় যে আপুনি CC-BY-SA আৰু GFDL অনুজ্ঞাপত্ৰৰ আওতাৰ বাহিৰত সেইবোৰৰ অন্য ব্যৱহাৰ কৰিব পাৰিব। উল্লেখ নকৰালৈকে ৱিকিপিডিয়া বা ৱিকিমিডিয়া চাইটসমূহ তেনে স্বত্বাধিকাৰীৰ লগত যুক্ত নহয় আৰু গতিকে ৱিকিপিডিয়াই কোনো সংৰক্ষিত বিষয়ৰ ব্যৱহাৰৰ অনুমতি দিব নোৱাৰে। এনেধৰণৰ ব্যৱসায়িক সম্পত্তিৰ ব্যৱহাৰৰ বাবে আপুনি নিজে দায়বদ্ধ।
 ৱিকিপিডিয়াত থকা কোনো বিষয়ে এজন চিনাকী জীৱিত বা সদ্য মৃত ব্যক্তিক চিত্ৰিত কৰিব পাৰে। কপিৰাইট মুক্ত নহ'লে জীৱিত বা সদ্য মৃত ব্যক্তিৰ ছবিৰ ব্যৱহাৰ কোনো কোনো বিচাৰব্যৱস্থাত  ৰ দ্বাৰা সীমাবদ্ধ। এনে সমল ব্যৱহাৰ কৰাৰ আগতে নিশ্চিত হওক যে আপুনি ব্যৱহাৰ কৰিব খোজা ধৰণে তাক ব্যৱহাৰ কৰাৰ আইনগত অধিকাৰ আপোনাৰ আছে।  
 ৱিকিপিডিয়াৰ তথ্যসমূহৰ প্ৰকাশ আপুনি যি দেশৰ পৰা এই তথ্যসমূহ প্ৰত্যক্ষ কৰিছে সেই দেশৰ বিচাৰব্যৱস্থা অনুসৰি আইন উলঙ্ঘন হ'ব পাৰে। ৱিকিপিডিয়াৰ তথ্যসমূহ  ৰ   ৰাজ্যত থকা এটা চাৰ্ভাৰত সংৰক্ষণ কৰা হৈছে, আৰু ইয়াক তাৰ আঞ্চলিক আৰু ফেডাৰেল আইনৰ অধীনত চোৱাচিতা কৰা হয়। আপোনাৰ দেশৰ আইনৰ হয়তো সেই আইনৰ লগত সাদৃশ্য নাথাকিব পাৰে। ৱিকিপিডিয়াই কোনো আইন উলঙ্ঘনক উৎসাহিত নকৰে। আপুনি এই ডমেইনৰ বিভিন্ন লিংকত থকা কোনো তথ্য ব্যৱহাৰ, পুনৰ্ব্যৱহাৰ বা পুনৰ্প্ৰকাশ কৰিলে ৱিকিপিডিয়াই কোনো আইন ভঙ্গৰ দায়িত্ব গ্ৰহণ নকৰে।
 যদি আপোনাক কোনো সুনিৰ্দিষ্ট পৰামৰ্শৰ প্ৰয়োজন (যেনে- চিকিৎসা সম্পৰ্কীয়, আইনী, অৰ্থনৈতিক, বা বিপদাশঙ্কা ব্যৱস্থাপনা), অনুগ্ৰহ কৰি এজন বিশেষজ্ঞ বা তেনে ক্ষেত্ৰত অনুজ্ঞাপত্ৰ থকা ব্যক্তিৰ শৰণাপন্ন হওক।


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roland_Bartetzko

Content:  (born 1970) is a former German soldier and convicted terrorist who fought with the   in the   (1992–1995) and the   in the   (1998–1999).
 In 2001, Bartetzko orchestrated a    outside a Yugoslav government office in  , killing one   civilian, and injuring four others. After his   was found on the detonator, he was arrested and charged with  ,   and  , becoming the first Westerner to be indicted on these charges in post-war Kosovo.
 The following year, he was convicted on all counts by an international court under the supervision of the   (UNMIK), and sentenced to 23 years' imprisonment. Bartetzko's sentence was later commuted to 20 years' imprisonment. He was released on   in 2015. He has maintained his innocence and claims he was framed by UNMIK. He wrote a book in 2018.
 Bartetzko was born in the town of   near   in 1970.  He joined the   in 1987.  By the time he was dishonorably discharged from the Bundeswehr in 1992, he had reached the rank of   ( :  ). In 1992, he travelled to the   to fight in the  , where he joined the   (HVO).  
 "To be able to call myself a soldier, I thought I had to fight, otherwise, I could have joined a paintball club." Bartetzko was one of approximately 100 German citizens who volunteered to fight with the HVO, most of whom were  . Bartetzko has denied being a  .  He was assigned to the Ante "Bruno" Bušić Brigade, which fought the   (ARBiH) He also fought during the  . 
 Bartetzko left the HVO in April 1994, citing the "very cruel scenes, which could be described as atrocities," as he witnessed being committed by his fellow HVO fighters.  He subsequently volunteered to fight with the   and participated in   in the closing stages of the Bosnian War. Upon returning to Germany, Bartetzko was arrested for allegedly stealing a woman's handbag. Following the outbreak of the   in February 1998, Bartetzko travelled to  ,  . He subsequently crossed the Albanian–Yugoslav border into Kosovo and joined the   (KLA) as a volunteer. During his time with the KLA, he assumed the    , the eighth month of the  . 
 On 18 April 2001, a   exploded near the   in  , the headquarters of the Yugoslav passport office in Kosovo, killing one civilian and wounding four others, including a woman who was left with serious injuries.  Yugoslav government official Aleksandar Petrović was later identified as the man killed in the bombing. The device used in the attack was filled with metal fragments.  According to the   (UNMIK)   Andrea Angeli, it contained around 10 kilograms (22 lb) of explosive. "For the future of Kosovo it could not be a more tragic incident," UNMIK police spokesperson Derek Chappell stated. "This is an attack against everything that people trying to build this country are working for." 
 The crime scene was quickly secured by UNMIK police and     personnel. UNMIK and KFOR soon discovered the detonator that had been used in the attack and that Bartetzko's   were on it.  Bartetzko was arrested several days after the bombing.  He was charged with  ,   and  .  He was the first Westerner to be charged with murder in post-war Kosovo. 
 In 2001, Bartetzko was   from the Bundeswehr under Paragraph 55 (5) of the Soldiers' Act, which is enforced when a soldier has "culpably violated their duty to serve" or "seriously endangered the military order or the reputation of the Bundeswehr".  Bartetzko's trial commenced in February 2002; he pleaded not guilty.  The trial was held under heavy security, with   police officers wearing   and armed with  .  The prosecution argued that the bombing was a "revenge attack" stemming from Bartetzko's "hatred of Serbs". On 10 May 2002, Bartetzko was convicted on all counts and sentenced to 23 years' imprisonment. 
 Bartetzko was incarcerated at the   in western Kosovo. He filed an appeal against the first-instance verdict, and on 12 November 2002, the Supreme Court of Kosovo reduced his sentence from 23 years to 20 years. In 2009, Bartetzko filed a request for interim measures with the Constitutional Court of Kosovo, alleging violations of his right to effective legal remedy, right to appeal, and human rights guaranteed by the  . In August 2010, the motion was rejected by the Constitutional Court of Kosovo. 
 Bartetzko was released on   in 2015. Upon his release, he relocated to   and found work providing legal services to a local media company, having studied law while imprisoned. In 2018, Bartetzko published a   called ' .' He is an active contributor to the question-and-answer website  , where he discusses his wartime experiences.
 He continues to maintain that he was not responsible for the bombing of the Yugoslav passport office and has accused UNMIK of framing him.  In 2022, Bartetzko went to   to provide logistical support for the Ukrainian   amidst the   of the country. 


URL: https://my.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E1%80%9D%E1%80%AE%E1%80%80%E1%80%AE%E1%80%95%E1%80%AE%E1%80%B8%E1%80%92%E1%80%AE%E1%80%B8%E1%80%9A%E1%80%AC%E1%80%B8:%E1%80%A1%E1%80%91%E1%80%BD%E1%80%B1%E1%80%91%E1%80%BD%E1%80%B1_%E1%80%9E%E1%80%90%E1%80%AD%E1%80%95%E1%80%BC%E1%80%AF%E1%80%96%E1%80%BD%E1%80%9A%E1%80%BA

Content: 
 
ဝီကီပီးဒီးယားသည် လူအများက စုပေါင်းရေးသားထား၍ အားလုံးကို ဝေမျှထားသော အွန်လိုင်း စွယ်စုံကျမ်း တစ်ခုသာလျှင် ဖြစ်ပါသည်။ ဆိုလိုရင်းမှာ လူတစ်ဦးတစ်ယောက်ချင်း သို့မဟုတ် လူအုပ်စုများက မိမိတို့၏ သဘောဆန္ဒဖြင့်လူသားတို့၏ အသိဉာဏ် ဗဟုသုတ တိုးတက်ဖွံ့ဖြိုးရေး အတွက် ရည်ရွယ်၍ လုပ်ဆောင်နေခြင်းသာ ဖြစ်ပါသည်။ ပရော့ဂျက်၏ ပုံသဏ္ဌာန်အရ အင်တာနက် ဆက်သွယ်မှု ရှိသူ မည်သူမဆို အတွင်းရှိ စာသားများကို ပြောင်းလဲပိုင်ခွင့်ရှိပါသည်။ ထို့ကြောင့် ဤနေရာတွင် တွေ့ရှိသော အကြောင်းအရာများမှာ ကျွမ်းကျင်သူများမှ ပြန်လည် စိစစ်သုံးသပ်ထားခြင်း မရှိသဖြင့် တိကျပြည့်စုံ၍ အားကိုးအားထားပြုလောက်သော သတင်း အချက်အလက်များ ဖြစ်ချင်မှ ဖြစ်ပါလိမ့်မည်ဆိုသည့်အကြောင်း အကြံပေးချင်ပါသည်။
 ထိုအတွက်ကြောင့် သင့်အနေနှင့် တန်ဖိုးရှိပြီး တိကျသော သတင်းအချက်အလက်များကို ဝီကီပီးဒီးယားတွင် ရှာဖွေတွေ့ရှိနိုင်လိမ့်မည် မဟုတ်ဟုလည်း မဆိုလိုပါ။ များသောအားဖြင့် သင့်အနေနှင့် ထိုသို့သော သတင်းအချက်အလက်များကို တွေ့နိုင်ပါသည်။ သို့သော်လည်း ဝီကီပီးဒီးယားမှ ဤနေရာတွင် တွေ့ရှိသော သတင်းအချက်အလက်များသည် ခိုင်လုံတိကျသည်ဟု အာမခံချက် မပေးနိုင်ပါ။ ဆောင်းပါးတွင် ပါဝင်သော အကြောင်းအရာများကို လတ်တလောတွင် သက်ဆိုင်ရာနယ်ပယ်နှင့် ပတ်သက်သော ဗဟုသုတ မရှိသူ တစ်ဦးမှ ပြောင်းလဲခြင်း၊ ဖျက်ဆီးခြင်း သို့မဟုတ် ပြင်ဆင်ခြင်းများ ပြုလုပ်ထားနိုင်ပါသည်။ အခြားသော စွယ်စုံကျမ်းများနှင့် ကျမ်းကိုး အများစုတွင်လည်း အလားတူ မသက်ဆိုင်ကြောင်း ရှင်းလင်းချက်များ ရှိတတ်သည်ကို သတိပြုစေလိုပါသည်။
 ယုံကြည်စိတ်ချရသောဆောင်းပါများ ရွေးချယ်တင်ပြနိုင်ရန် နည်းလမ်းများကို ကျွန်တော်တို့ ရှာဖွေလုပ်ဆောင်နေပါသည်။ ကျွန်တော်တို့၏ တက်ကြွသော အယ်ဒီတာအဖွဲ့သည်  အချက်အလက်အသစ်များနှင့် ပြောင်းလဲမှုများကို   နှင့်    တို့ကဲ့သို့သော ကိရိယာများကို အသုံးပြုပြီး စောင့်ကြည့်ထိန်းသိမ်းလျက်ရှိပါသည်။ သို့သော်လည်း ဝီကီပီးဒီးယားကို တပြေးညီ အကဲဖြတ်ခြင်းရှိမနေသည့်အတွက် စာဖတ်သူများသည် အမှားများ ပြင်ဆင်ခြင်းနှင့် အကဲဖြတ်ခြင်းတို့တွင် ပါဝင်ပတ်သက်လေ့ရှိသော်လည်း သူတို့တွင် ထိုသို့ပြုလုပ်ရမည်ဟူသော တာဝန်ဝတ္တရား ရှိမနေပါ။ ထို့အတွက်ကြောင့် ဤနေရာတွင် ဖတ်ရှုရနိုင်သော အချက်အလက်များသည် မည်သည့်နေရာတွင်မဆို သို့မဟုတ် မည်သည့်ရည်ရွယ်ချက်ဖြင့်မဆို အသုံးပြုရန်အတွက် ဆီလျော်နေမည်ဟု အာမခံချက် ပေးမထားပါ။ ဆောင်းပါးများကို အကဲဖြတ်ခဲ့ပြီး ဖြစ်သော်လည်း နောက်ပိုင်းတွင် သင်မဖတ်ရမီအချိန်အတွင်း မဆီမလျော်တည်းဖြတ်ခြင်းခံရနေနိုင်ပါသည်။
 
 ဤနေရာတွင် ဖော်ပြထားသော အချက်အလက်များကို အခမဲ့ထောက်ပံ့ထားခြင်းဖြစ်ပြီး သင်နှင့် ပိုင်ရှင်များ သို့မဟုတ် ဤဆိုဒ်ကို အသုံးပြုသူများ၊ လွှင့်တင်ထားသော ဆာဗာများ၏ ပိုင်ရှင်များ၊ ဝီကီပီးဒီးယား ပံ့ပိုးသူတစ်ဦးချင်း၊ ပရောဂျက်စီမံခန့်ခွဲသူများ၊ အက်ဒမင်များ သို့မဟုတ် ဤပရောဂျက် သို့မဟုတ် ညီအစ်မပရောဂျက်များတွင်    အကြားတွင် သဘောတူညီချက်၊ သဘောတူစာချုပ် တစ်မျိုးမျိုး ရှိမနေသည်ကို သတိပြုပါ။ ဤဆိုဒ်ပေါ်ရှိ မည်သည့်အကြောင်းအရာကိုမဆို ကူးယူရန် သင့်အား ကန့်သတ်လိုင်စင်တစ်ခုဖြင့် ပေးအပ်ထားပြီး ဝီကီပီးဒီးယား၏ တစ်စိတ်တစ်ပိုင်း သို့မဟုတ် ၎င်း၏အေးဂျင့်များ၊ အဖွဲ့ဝင်များ၊ စီစဉ်သူများ သို့မဟုတ် အခြားအသုံးပြုသူများ၏ အစိတ်အပိုင်းတစ်ခုတွင် စာချုပ်စာတမ်းဆိုင်ရာ သို့မဟုတ် အပိုတာဝန်ယူမှုကို ဖန်တီးခြင်း သို့မဟုတ် သတ်မှတ်ထားခြင်း မရှိပါ။
  (CC-BY-SA) နှင့်   (GFDL) တို့ထက် ကျော်လွန်၍ ဤသတင်းအချက်အလက်များအား အသုံးပြုခြင်းနှင့် ပြင်ဆင်ခြင်းအပေါ်  ပါ။ ဝီကီပီးဒီးယား သို့မဟုတ် ၎င်း၏ဆက်စပ်ပရောဂျက်များပေါ်တွင် သင်တင်နိုင်သည့် မည်သည့်အချက်အလက်ကိုမဆို ပြောင်းလဲခြင်း၊ တည်းဖြတ်ခြင်း၊ ပြင်ဆင်ခြင်း သို့မဟုတ် ဖယ်ရှားခြင်းများအတွက် ဝီကီပီးဒီးယားရှိ မည်သူတစ်ဦးတစ်ယောက်ထံတွင်မျှ တာဝန်မရှိပါ။
 ဝီကီပီဒီးယား စွယ်စုံကျမ်းတွင် အသုံးပြု သို့မဟုတ် ရည်ညွှန်း ဖော်ပြထားသော ကုန်အမှတ်တံဆိပ်၊ ဝန်ဆောင်မှု အမှတ်အသား၊ အစုအပေါင်း အမှတ်အသား၊ ဒီဇိုင်း မူပိုင်ခွင့် သို့မဟုတ် အလာတူ အခွင့်အရေးများသည် သက်ဆိုင်ရာ ပိုင်ရှင်များ၏ ပိုင်ဆိုင်မှုသာ ဖြစ်သည်။ 
 ဝီကီပီဒီးယား စွယ်စုံကျမ်းပါ ဆောင်းပါးများတွင် ဖော်ပြထားသော၊ အသုံးပြုထားသော သို့မဟုတ် ကိုးကားဖော်ပြထားသော အမှတ်တံဆိပ်များ၊ ဝန်ဆောင်မှုအမှတ်အသားများ၊ စုပေါင်းအမှတ်အသားများ၊ ဒီဇိုင်းဆိုင်ရာ မူပိုင်အခွင့်အရေးများ သို့မဟုတ် အလားတူအခွင့်အရေးများကို ဝီကီပီဒီးယား စွယ်စုံကျမ်း၏ ဆောင်းပါးများတွင် ဖော်ပြထားခြင်းများသည် သက်ဆိုင်ရာပိုင်ရှင်များ၏ ပိုင်ဆိုင်မှုဖြစ်သည်။ ဤနေရာတွင် ၎င်းတို့၏အသုံးပြုမှုသည် CC-BY-SA နှင့် GFDL လိုင်စင်အစီအစဉ်များအောက်ရှိ ဤဝီကီပီးဒီးယားဆောင်းပါးများ၏ မူရင်းစာရေးဆရာများမှ တွေးခေါ်ထားသည့်အတိုင်း တူညီသော သို့မဟုတ် အလားတူသတင်းအချက်အလက်အသုံးပြုမှုမှလွဲ၍ အခြားမည်သည့်ရည်ရွယ်ချက်အတွက်မဆို ၎င်းတို့ကို အသုံးပြုနိုင်ကြောင်း မဆိုလိုပါ။ အခြားနည်းဖြင့် မဖော်ပြထားပါက၊ ဝီကီပီဒီးယားနှင့် ဝီကီမီဒီယာဆိုဒ်များသည် ယင်းအခွင့်အရေးကို ကိုင်ဆောင်ထားသူများနှင့် သက်ဆိုင်ခြင်းမရှိသကဲ့သို့၊ ဝီကီပီဒီးယားနှင့် အခြားသော ကာကွယ်ထားသည့်ပစ္စည်းများကို အသုံးပြုရန် မည်သည့်အခွင့်အရေးကိုမှ မပေးနိုင်ပါ။ ထိုကဲ့သို့သော သို့မဟုတ် အလားတူသော ပေါင်းစပ်ပစ္စည်းပိုင်ဆိုင်မှုကို သင့်အနေဖြင့် အသုံးပြုခြင်း သင့်တာဝန်သာ ဖြစ်သည်။
 အသက်ရှိဆဲ သို့မဟုတ် မကြာသေးမီက ကွယ်လွန်ခဲ့သည့် မှတ်မိသိရှိနိုင်ဖွယ်ရှိသော လူပုဂ္ဂိုလ်အကြောင်း ဖော်ပြချက် အကြောင်းအရာများ ဝီကီပီဒီးယားတွင် ပါဝင်သည်။ အသက်ရှိဆဲ သို့မဟုတ် ကွယ်လွန်ခဲ့ပြီးသော ပုဂ္ဂိုလ်များ၏ ပုံများကို အသုံးပြုရာတွင် တရားစီရင်မှု တချို့နှင့် ငြိစွန်းခြင်း၊ တသီးပုဂ္ဂလ အခွင့်အရေးများအရ ဥပဒေဖြင့် တင်းကြပ်ထားခြင်း၊ မူပိုင်ခွင့်မှ လွတ်မြောက်နေခြင်းများ ဖြစ်နိုင်ပါသည်။ အဆိုပါ အမျိုးအစား အကြောင်းအရာများကို အသုံးမပြုမီ သင်အသုံးပြုရန် ရည်စူးထားသည့် အနေအထားတွင် ဥပဒေကြောင်းအရ အသုံးပြုခွင့် ရှိကြောင်း သေချာအောင် ကျေးဇူးပြု၍ လုပ်ဆောင်ပါ။  
 ဝီကီပီဒီးယားပါ သတင်းအချက်အလက် ဖော်ပြချက်များသည် သင် ဖတ်ရှုသည့်နေရာဒေသ၏ ဥပဒေများ၊ တရားစီရင်ရေးရာများကို ချိုးဖောက်ရာ ရောက်ကောင်း ရောက်နိုင်ပါသည်။ ဝီကီပီဒီးယား ဒေတာအထိုင်ကို  ၊ ဖလော်ရီဒါပြည်နယ်ရှိ ဆာဗာတွင် သိမ်းဆည်းထားပါသည်။ ထို့အပြင် ဒေသတွင်းနှင့် ဖက်ဒရယ် ဥပဒေများဖြင့် ရည်ညွှန်းကိုးကားချက်များကို အကာအကွယ်ယူ ထိန်းသိမ်းထားပါသည်။ သင်နေထိုင်ရာ နိုင်ငံ၏ ဥပဒေ သို့မဟုတ် တရားစီရင်ရေးသည် အလားတူ မိန့်ဆိုချက် သို့မဟုတ် အထောက်အကူပေးချက်များကို အကာအကွယ်ပေးချင်မှ ပေးနိုင်ပါလိမ့်မည်။ ဝီကီပီဒီးယားအနေဖြင့် မည်သည့်ဥပဒေ ချိုးဖောက်မှုကိုမှ အားမပေးပါ။ ဤတွင် ပါဝင်နေသော သတင်းအချက်အလက်များကို ပြန်လည် ဖော်ပြချက် သို့မဟုတ် ပြန်လည် ထုတ်လုပ်ချက် သို့မဟုတ် အသုံးပြုထားချက် သို့မဟုတ် ဒိုမိန်းလိပ်စာ ချိတ်ဆက်ထားမှုတို့ကြောင့် ဖြစ်ပေါ်သော မည်သည့်ဥပဒေ ချိုးဖောက်မှုကိုမှ တာဝန် မခံနိုင်ပါ။
 အထူးအကြံဉာဏ် (ဥပမာ ဆေးပညာဆိုင်ရာ၊ ဥပဒေဆိုင်ရာ၊ ဘဏ္ဍာရေးဆိုင်ရာ သို့မဟုတ် အန္တရာယ်အခြေအနေကို စီမံခန့်ခွဲမှု) လိုအပ်လျှင် အဆိုပါ နယ်ပယ်တွင် ဗဟုသုတ ကြွယ်ဝသူ သို့မဟုတ် လုပ်ပိုင်ခွင့် လိုင်စင်ရသူ ပညာရှင် (professional) ကို ရှာဖွေမေးမြန်းပါ။


URL: https://arc.wikipedia.org/wiki/%DC%98%DC%9D%DC%A9%DC%9D%DC%A6%DC%95%DC%9D%DC%90:General_disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://ast.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Llimitaci%C3%B3n_xeneral_de_responsabilid%C3%A1

Content:  –   –   –   – [[Uiquipedia:Avisu de conteníu|Avisu de conteníu]
 
  ye una enciclopedia collaborativa, na rede, de conteníu abiertu, ye dicir, una asociación voluntaria de persones y grupos que desendolquen conxuntamente una fonte del conocimientu humanu. La so cadarma de furrulamientu permite a cualquier persona que dispón de conexón a Internet, y d'un navegador web, modificar el conteníu de los sos artículos o páxines. Poro, por favor tenga presente que   que conocen los temes de les estremaes materies qu'abarca, de la forma necesaria pa proporcionar una información completa, precisa y fiable.
 Esto nun significa que nun vaya alcontrar información esauta y valiosa en Wikipedia; asina será les más de les veces. Sincasí,  . El conteníu de cualquier artículu, pue tar recientemente camudáu,   o alteráu por daquién del que la so opinión pue non corresponder col estáu de los conocimientos nes estayes pertinentes.
 La información equí contenida suminístrase llibremente y de baldre, ensin crear nenguna mena d'alcuerdu o contratu ente usté y los propietarios o usuarios d'esti sitiu, los propietarios de los servidores nos qu'esti sitiu web ta agospiáu, los contribuyentes individuales de Wikipedia, los alministradores de cualquier proyeutu, los operadores del sistema, nin persona dala venceyada con esti proyeutu o otros proyeutos hermanos. Se-y concede a usté una llicencia allendada pa copiar cualquier material d'esti sitiu; esa llicencia nun crea responsabilidá contrautual o estracontrautual de parte de Wikipedia nin nengún de los sos axentes, miembros, organizadores o otros usuarios.   (pa mayor información, llea detenidamente la  . Una esplicación sobre la llicencia, pero non  los sos términos y condiciones, ta disponible  ).
 Esti   que cubra l'emplegu o les modificaciones qu'usté faiga al respeutive de la información, más allá de los términos de la Llicencia de documentación llibre GNU; naide en Wikipedia pue ser consideráu responsable de los camudamientos, alteraciones, modificaciones o eliminaciones de cualquier información qu'usté realice en Wikipedia o cualquiera de los sos proyeutos asociaos.
 Cualesquier marques rexistraes, marques de serviciu, marques coleutives, drechos de diseñu o otros drechos de propiedá industrial que se menten, empleguen o citen nos artículos o páxines de Wikipedia son propiedá de los respeutivos titulares. El so emplegu equí nun implica qu'ustá puea emplegalos pa otru envís estremáu del emplegu informativu calcáu o asemeyáu al vistu polos autores orixinales de los artículos en Wikipedia baxo los términos de la  .
 Sacantes indicación al aviesu, los sitios web de Wikipedia y Wikimedia nun tán venceyaos colos titulares de los mentaos drechos, y poro, Wikipedia nun pue dar derechu dalu pal emplegu de materiales protexíos. L'emplegu que vusté faiga d'esa propiedá inmaterial o asemeyaes ye esclusivamente baxo la so propia cuenta.
 Sacante indicación de lo aviesu, les conclusiones, les interpretaciones y los albidros espresaos nos artículos de Wikipedia correspuenden a los sos respeutivos autores, y nun representen necesariamente'l puntu de vista de Wikipedia.
 La información suministrada  
 Si necesita asesoramientu específicu (por exemplu, médicu, llegal, financieru, o de xestión de riesgos), por favor solicite un profesional que tenga llicencia o conocencia de la materia.
 
 Por calter xeneral,  . Si estu pue suponer un problema, por favor asténgase del so emplegu. Si ye menor d'edá, consulte a sos proxenitores o tutores llegales primero de facer usu de Wikipedia.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&returnto=Wikipedia%3AGeneral+disclaimer

Content: 

URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Contributions/2601:1C2:1A00:2B5:E87D:59A4:C2B1:A08A

Content: 

URL: https://cdo.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:M%C3%B2%CC%A4_h%C3%B4-c%C3%A1ik_s%C4%ADng-m%C3%ACng

Content: /* Mò̤ bō̤-céng cĭng-sĭk-séng */ About Aol specific gameing language governing
 Nē̤ng-gă â̤ gēng-sōng siŏh piĕ gŏ̤ cék-liông gì ùng-ciŏng, bêng-chiā â̤ huă-huă-nióh kĕk   gâe̤ng   lì gáng-sê dék sĭng gì biéng-huá. Dáng-sê,  


URL: https://mzn.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%BE%D8%B1%D9%88%DA%98%D9%87:%D8%AA%DA%A9%D8%B0%DB%8C%D8%A8%E2%80%8C%D9%86%D9%88%D9%85%D9%87%D9%94_%D9%87%D9%85%D9%87%E2%80%8C%DA%AF%D9%88%D9%86%DB%8C

Content: ویکی‌پدیا، اتا دانشنامه با محتویات آزاد و حاصل کار داوطلبونهٔ ونه کارورون هسته. اینتا پروژه‌ی هدف بساتن منبعی آزاد دانش بشری وسّه هسته. ونه ساختار به گونه‌ای هسته که هرکسی که دسترسی به اینترنت داشت‌بائه بتونده ونه بنویشته‌ئون ره تغییر هاده. پس این ره بدونین که اینجه‌ی بنویشته‌ئون ره هیچ کسی بازرسی نکانده و همینسه ونه بنویشته‌ئون بتونده غلط بوئه.
 گرچه اینتا سایت دله چیزون خله خاری هم پیدا بونه ولی اِما وشون ره تضمین نکامبی و این بنویشته‌ئون گرچه ونه منبع‌دار و معتبر بائن، ولی تضمین‌بَیی نینه. شِما هم هرچی که ونه دله دره ره بتوندی کار بزنی.


URL: https://als.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Impressum

Content: Abieter vo derre Internetsite isch d  , ytrait bim   under de Nummere N03000005323. D Wikimedia Foundation isch e Stiftig noch em Rächt vom  -Bundesstaat  . Verantwortligi Asprächperson und   im Sinn vom   isch zur Zit d  .
 Bi Froge und Interview-Wünsch chönnet Ihr euch uff informäller Basis au gern an di aktive alemannischsprochige Nutzer wände. Details findsch au uff de Site  .
 D   isch e freii  , wo under de   im Internet under   z finde isch. Meh erfahrsch  .
 D   sin keini offiziälle Verträtter vom Internetsite-Abieter, sondern numme Nutzer, wo erwiterti technischi Mögligkeite hän. Sälli Persone hälfe normalerwis gern und schnäll bi eventuälle Froge oder Beastandige, sin aber nit für d Netzsite verantwortlig.
 Jede Nutzer isch für Byträg, wo-n-er erstellt, sälber in vollem Umfang verantwortlig. Praktisch jede Inhalt cha durch jede verändert werre. Werch, wo under em Verdacht stönn, Urheberrächt oder Verwertigsrächt z verletze, chönne jederzit ohni Rucksproch korrigiert bzw. glöscht werre. E Usschluss vo einzelne Nutzer bhaltet sich de Abieter vor.
 D Nutzer sin uffgrüefe, alli Inhalt, wo si zu derre Internetsite bystüre, noch em beste Wille z erstelle. Weder de Abieter no di einzelne Nutzer erhebe aber Aspruch uff Vollständigkeit, Aktualität, Qualität und Richtigkeit. S cha sällewäg kei Verantwortig für Schäde übernoh werre, wo durch s Vertraue uff d Inhalt vo derre Internetsite oder Gebruch devo entstönn.
 De Abieter erlaubt di kommerziälli Verwändig und Witergab vo de Date uss de Wikipedia under de  , lüeg au  .
 De Abieter vo de Internetsite wyst uff allne Ygabesite druff hii, kei Material z verwände, wo Urheberrächt vo Dritte underlit. Bi de große Zahl vo de elektronische und vor allem schriftlige Publikatione, wo s uff de Wikipedia hät, chann er aber nit usschließe, dass vo de Nutzer einewäg Material ybrocht wird, wo Schutzrächt verletzt, und dass säll nit sofort erkännt wird.
 Wenn im Abieter e entsprächendi Urheberrächtsverletzig azeigt wird, no wird s Material, wo s betrifft, so schnäll wie möglig vom Server gnoh. Offiziälle Asprächpartner für so Fäll isch de   vo de Wikipedia, wo noch em US-amerikanische Rächt bstimmt wird.
 Alternativ chönnet Ihr Euch uff informäller Basis au an di aktive alemannischsprochige Nutzer wände. Ihr erreichet sälli über d Site  .


URL: https://mwl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biquip%C3%A9dia:Abiso_legal

Content: 
 La   — coincida anternacionalmente cumo   — ye ua anciclopédia   de cuntenido abierto, esto ye, ua associaçon d'andebíduos que beluntariamente se dedícan a la criaçon dun grande repositório de todo l coincimiento houmano. Sue strutura premite que qualquiera andebíduo cun ua lhigaçon a la Anterneta i un nabegador   puoda altarar l cuntenido eiqui ancuntrado. Antoce, l outelizador debe tener an atençon que nada garante que l cuntenudo eiqui çponeblizado tenga sido rebisto por porfissionales debidamente credenciados nas árias de coincimiento an queston, de modo a poder dar anformaçones cumpletas, percisas i credibles subre qualquiera assunto eiqui abordado.
 Esto nun quier dezir que la Biquipédia nun cuntenha muitas anformaçones percisas i baliosas. Esto quier dezir solo que la   Eilhas puoden tener sido altaradas ó bandalizadas por alguien cun ua oupenion que nun corresponda al "stado de l coincimiento" na ária particular que l'outelizador stá antressado an coincer. La Wikipédia stá a trabalhar an nuobas formas de selecionar i aprobar bersones fiables de ls artigos mas, mesmo assi, sin dar garanties.
 Nanhun de ls outores, cuntribuidores, patrocinadores, admenistradores (de l cuntenido ó de l sistema), nin naide lhigado d'algua maneira a la Wikipédia puode ser respunsablizado por qualesquiera anformaçones amprecisas ó difamatórias eiqui cuntenidas, nin pul uso que se puoda fazer de tales anformaçones.
 Todas las marcas registradas ó parecidas, ambolbendo dreitos d'outor, que séian mencionadas, outelizadas ó citadas ne ls artigos de la Biquipédia son propiadades de sous respetibos duonhos. Sou uso neste sítio nun outoriza naide a outelizá-las lhibremente cun outros perpósitos para alhá de l'oubjetibo anformatibo de l'outor oureginal desses artigos. Salbo quando specificado an cuntrairo, ls sítios de la Wikimedia Foundation, antre ls quales stá la Biquipédia, nun son andossados nin afeliados a nanhun de ls propiatairos destes dreitos i, cumo tal, la Biquipédia nun puode cunceder dreitos d'uso subre nanhun material que tenga l sou uso restrito por dreitos outorales ó parecidos.
 Las anformaçones na Wikipédia puoden biolar la lhegislaçon aplicable an detreminados países ó jurisdiçones. La Biquipédia nun ancita la biolaçon de nanhue lhei, mas cumo las anformaçones stan guardadas an serbidores ne ls Stados Ounidos de la América i an alguns países de la Ouropa, eilhas son regidas pulas proteçones garantidas als cidadanos desses países. Inda assi, nin todos ls países de l mundo dan ua proteçon a la lhibardade de spresson tan ampla cumo ls Stados Ounidos ó la Ounion Ouropeia, pul que la Wikipédia nun puode ser, de nanhun modo, respunsablizada por ua eibentual biolaçon dessas lheis, pul uso que un outelizador dun desses países puoda fazer de las anformaçones na Biquipédia.
 L'outelizador que percisar d'acunselhamiento specífico (por eisemplo: médico, lhegal, financeiro, etc.) ye bibamente acunselhado a percurar un porfissional de la ária.
 La Biquipédia nun ye rebista de forma custante i ouniforme. Anque de ls lheitores puodan corregir erros ó remober anformaçones ancorretas, eilhes nun ténen nanhue oubrigaçon lhegal de fazé-lo, pul que nanhue anformaçon ancuntrada eiqui ten qualquiera garantie de serbir a qualquiera uso ó perpósito specífico.
 Las anformaçones de la Wikipédia son çponiblizadas de grácia, nun habendo nanhun acuordo ó cuntrato antre l'outelizador i la Biquipédia cun respeito al uso ó modeficaçon dessas anformaçones para alhá de la   (CC-BY-SA) i de la  . La Biquipédia nun puode ser respunsablizada se alguien eiditar, demudar ó apagar qualquiera anformaçon que qualquiera outelizador tenga antroduzido na Biquipédia ó an qualquiera un de ls porjetos relacionados.


URL: https://af.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: Vir die Engelse  , sien gerus  
 Hierdie internet-  word uiteindelik deur die publiek self geskryf. Hoewel amper iedere bydraer tot die projek ernstig poog om korrekte inligting te verskaf, kan geen algemene waarborg daaroor gegee word nie. 'n Duidelike fout sal meestal vinnig duidelik word aan die andere deelnemers en sal daardeur ook reggestel word. Die algemene ontwikkeling gaan in die rigting van groter en meer korrekte bydraes, maar in individuele gevalle kan 'n terugval intree. Daar word egter deurgaans op vollediger en meer korrekte artikels gemik.
 U word aangeraai om naas hierdie ensiklopedie ook ander bronne en gespesialiseerde naslaanwerk te raadpleeg. Vergelyk daarnaas gerus die inhoud met ander ensiklopedieë of ander werke.
 As u dink dat daar wel 'n   is met die teks, verbeter dit gerus -   -   -   - plaas gerus 'n opmerking daaroor op die   wat by die bladsy hoort. 'n Ander moontlikheid is om die   te bekyk en na te gaan wie dit geskryf het en 'n opmerking op die betrokke outeur se besprekingsbladsy te maak.
 Die vrywilligers wat tot hierdie ensiklopedie bydra (dit is die publiek, en dus ook uself) aanvaar geen aanspreeklikheid vir die korrektheid van die gegewe inligting nie. Daar kan selfs nie gewaarborg word dat die outeurs/bydraers aan die artikels sorgvuldigheid in ag geneem het met die formulering van die artikels nie. Gebruik van die inligting is geheel en al vry, maar wel op eie risiko.
 Daar is gebruikers bekend as   wat oor ekstra gereedskap beskik op tegniese vlak betreffende hierdie webwerf. Dit sluit in die verwydering van bladsye, beveiliging van bladsye en die ontneem van skryfregte van gebruikers, deur hulle te blokkeer. Dit is moontlikhede waaroor gewone gebruikers nie beskik nie. Hierdie groep vrywilligers dien nie as die webmeesters nie, maar eerder as die opsieners van Wikipedia. Dit is 'n uitvoerende funksie waaroor hulle beskik. Die daaglikse bestuur van die Afrikaanse Wikipedia gaan in die praktyk uit van die gemeenskap van die Afrikaanse Wikipedia.
 Op regsvlak is die   die eindverantwoordelike party.
 As daar volgens u 'n probleem is, tree eerstens in kontak met die Afrikaanse Wikipedia. En as u 'n klag wil lê, is dit ook moontlik, in Engels, by:
 Al die tekstuele materiaal op Wikipedia val onder die  -lisensie. Indien u 'n stuk sien wat oorgeneem is van elders anders, sonder die toestemming van die kopiereghouer, meld dit dan aan, of verander die stuk self.
 Vir die afbeeldings, oudio, video en ander media op Wikipedia geld dat dit nie alles onder die  -lisensie val nie. Daar kan dus sekere beperkinge wees op die gebruik van sulke media. Die verantwoordelikheid lê dan by die gebruiker van Wikipedia om daarna op te let. Deur op 'n afbeelding of skakel na die beskrywingsblad van 'n ander mediastuk te klik, kan sekerheid verkry word rakende die voorwaardes vir die gebruik van die mediastuk. Indien daar nie melding gemaak word van die outeursregte nie, dan moet daar aangeneem word dat daar eksterne outeursregte op die mediastuk is.
 Sien hiervoor: {{ }} (onlangs na Afrikaans vertaal).


URL: https://xmf.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E1%83%95%E1%83%98%E1%83%99%E1%83%98%E1%83%9E%E1%83%94%E1%83%93%E1%83%98%E1%83%90:%E1%83%92%E1%83%90%E1%83%9B%E1%83%90%E1%83%9B%E1%83%98%E1%83%9C%E1%83%AF%E1%83%90%E1%83%9A%E1%83%90%E1%83%A8_%E1%83%95%E1%83%90%E1%83%A0%E1%83%90%E1%83%A4%E1%83%90

Content: ,  -  დუდიშული დინორეთ, რე მოხალისე  პიჯეფიშ დო ბუნეფიშ ჯარალუა, ნამუეფით ორსხუანა კოჩიშობაშ რჩქინაშ ოირკოჩე ოჩუაშეს. თიში სტრუქტურაშ მეჯინათ ვიკიპედიაშ რედაქტირაფა   დო   მაღვენჯი ნამგარდია პიჯის შეულებჷ. ათეშენ, რთხიინთ გეთოლწონათ, ნამდა მოჸონაფილი ინფორმაცია შილებე ვა რდას გჷნომორსაფილი პროფესიონალეფიშით.
 ვე შილებე თიში რაგადი, ნამდა ვიკიპედიას ვა რე აიწორი დო ოხვილური ინფორმაცია, მორო თქვა ოკო გეთოლწონათ, ნამდა    ვა რე გჷშაკოროცხილი, ნამდა თქვანო საინტერესო ინფორმაცია რდჷ თირელი, გჷლალუაფირი ვარა ჭარილი თი პიჯიშით, მიდგაშ სარზება იშხვანერებუ ზოგადო ეჭოფილი სარზებაშე. 
 ჩქი ირო ბგორჷნთ მაქსიმალურო ბონი დო გოთინილი სტატიეფიშ გჷნომორსაფაშ დო გჷშაგორუაშ შარეფს. ჩქინი უდიდაში მეჭირინდაფა რე  , მორო თინეფით ხოლო შელებუანიე გჷლალუეს-და მუსხირენ მერქაშ წოხოლე სოიშახ თქვა იკითხენდითჷნ.  
 რთხინთ გეთოლწონათ, ნამდა ინფორმაცია, ნამუსჷთ თაქ ძირჷნთჷნ, დორსხუაფილიე დუდიშულო, მუჭოთ ჯამიერი ზალამიშ გჷმორჩქინა. ინფორმაციაშ მიმაჭირინდაფალეფს დო ვიკიპედიაშ მინჯეეფს, ადმინისტრატორეფს, ოპერატორეფს ვარა   დო მაკითხირალეფს შქას ვა რე დოდვალირი მუთუნინერი აპიჯაფა. ათეშენ, ვიკიპედიაშ დინორე ვა გჷნირთუ იურიდიული პრეტენზიეფიშ ოკითხუთ. თქვა გიღუნა ვიკიპედიაშ ანგუაშ ალობა, მორო ვართ თენას იგურხონარებუ მუდგაინი იურიდიული გამამინჯალა  - თქვა ირინუანთ ინფორმაციას დორხველი ზალამით.
 ნამდგარდია ოვაჭარე შანი, მარკეფი, ორგანიზაციეფიშ, მეკონეფიშ ჯოხოეფი, დიზაინი დო ვიკიპედიას გჷმორინაფილი შხვა ვადუდიშული ინფორმაციაშენ ოავტორე ნებეფს ღვალენა თინეფიშ კანონიერი მინჯეეფი. ვიკიპედიაშ დინორე იფაჩუ   ლიცენზიათ, დო თქვა შეილებუნა თინეფიშ გჷმორინაფა ხვალე თე ლიცენზიაშ პიჯალეფიშ ალებათ. რშუდანი, ნამდა თქვა  
 რთხიინთ თაშნეშე გეთოლწონათ, ნამდა ნამთინე ვიკიპედია მილარე  ,   დო დოჸუნს ამერიკაშ კანონდვალირაფას. თქვანი ქიანაშ კანონეფქ შილებე ვა გოხურგუანი ზიტყვაშ დუდიშალა თიშნერ ფირჩას, მუჭოთ ამერიკაშ კანონდვალირაფაქ დო    .
 , რახანით რე ზოხორინელი დუდიშული ჯარალაუა, დორსხუაფილი ოგანმანათლებელე, კულტურული დო ინფორმაციული რესურსიშ დარსხუაფალო. ინფორმაცია ვიკიპედიას იფაჩუ   ლიცენზიათ.
 მარდის გიგანთ, თე ხასჷლაშ ოკითხირალო ბორჯიშ მუკოჸოთამაშენ. მენდი მიღუნა, ნამდა ვიკიპედია ქჷდოიტალენა ხვალე ჯგირი ინნახანტეფს.


URL: https://ar.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%D9%8A%D9%83%D9%8A%D8%A8%D9%8A%D8%AF%D9%8A%D8%A7:%D8%A5%D8%AE%D9%84%D8%A7%D8%A1_%D9%85%D8%B3%D8%A4%D9%88%D9%84%D9%8A%D8%A9_%D8%B9%D8%A7%D9%85

Content: ويكيبيديا هي موسوعة إنترنت تعاونية  ، وهي شراكة بين المتطوعين الأفراد والمجموعات والذين يعملون على تطوير مصدر معرفي بشري عام. تسمح بنية المشروع لكل شخصٍ مُتصل بالإنترنت أن يُعدل المحتوى. يرجى منك أن تعلم أنه لا شيء في هذا المشروع يُلزم أن تكون قد تمت مراجعته من أهل الخبرة المؤهلين لتزويدك بمعلومات معتمدة أو دقيقة أو كاملة.
 لا يعني هذا أنك لن تجد معلومات قيمة ودقيقة في ويكيبيديا، بل ستجد الكثير منها، ولكن على الرغم من هذا إلا أنَّ  ، حيثُ إنّ محتوى كل مقالة قد يكون عُدل مؤخرًا أو   أو غُيِّر بواسطة أفراد لا تتطابق آراؤهم مع النصوص المعرفية في المجالات المتعلقة بالمقالة. لاحظ أنّ أكثر الموسوعات والمراجع تحتوي إخلاء مسؤولية أيضًا.
 يستعمل محررو   النشطون أدوات مثل تغذيات   و  لمراقبة تعديلات المحتوى والمحتوى الجديد، وعلى الرغم من هذا إلا أنَّ ويكيبيديا لا تحتوي على مراجعة أقران رسمية، حيث أنَّ القراء قد يصححون الأخطاء أو يشتركون في  ، ولكن ليس إجبارًا عليهم القيام بذلك وبالتالي جميع المعلومات هنا لا تمتلك أي ضمانات دائمًا إطلاقًا، وحتى المقالات التي تمت مراجعتها عبر مراجعة أقران رسمية أو هي  ، إلا أنه قد يطرأ عليها تعديل غير مناسب قبل أن تقرأها بقليل.
 
 يُرجى العلم بأن المعلومات هنا تُقدم بشكلٍ حر، وأنه لا يوجد عقد بينك وبين مستخدمي أو مسؤولي هذا الموقع أو مسؤولي الخوادم التي تستضيف معلومات الموقع، ولا الأفراد المساهمين ولا إداريي المشاريع ولا مشغلي النظام، ولا كل من له صلة بهذا المشروع  ، ولا بالمشاريع الشقيقة، كما أنهم ليسوا عرضة لادعاءاتك المباشرة ضدهم. لك رخصة محدودة بنسخ أي شيء من هذا الموقع، ولا تدل هذه الرخصة تصريحًا أو تلميحًا على أي التزام تعاقدي أو غير تعاقدي من جهة ويكيبيديا أو أحد وكلائها أو أعضائها أو منظميها أو مستخدمين آخرين.
 فيما يتعلق باستعمالك أو تعديلك للمعلومات، فإنه   إلا وفقًا   (CC-BY-SA) و  (GFDL)، كما أنه لا يتحمل أي شخص في ويكيبيديا مسؤولية تغيير أو تنقيح أو تعديل أو حذف معلومات قد تنشرها أنت على ويكيبيديا أو أي من المشاريع المرتبطة بها.
 كل علامة تجارية أو علامة خدمة أو علامة جماعية أو حقوق تصميم وما يشابهها من الحقوق المُشار إليها أو المستعملة أو المُستشهد بها في مقالات ويكيبيديا هي ملك لأصحابها بالكامل، ولا يستلزم ذلك أنه يجوز لك أن تستعملها لأي غرض غير الاستعمال المعلوماتي المماثل أو المشابه لما كان يقصده المؤلفون الأصليون لهذه المقالات في ويكيبيديا وفقًا لرخصة المشاع الإبداعي النسبة-الترخيص بالمثل 3.0 (CC-BY-SA) ورخصة جنو للوثائق الحرة (GFDL). لا يمكن لمواقع ويكيبيديا وويكيميديا منح تأييد من أصحاب مثل هذه الحقوق ولا المشاركة معهم، وكذلك ليس لويكيبيديا أن تمنح حقوق استعمال المواد المحمية إلا طبقًا للرخص المذكورة. استخدامك لأي من هذه المواد أو ما يُماثلها يكون على مسؤوليتك الخاصة.
 تحتوي ويكيبيديا على مواد قد تظهر فيها صور أشخاص يمكن التعرف عليهم سواءً كانوا أحياء أو قد توفوا مؤخرًا. إنَّ استعمال صور الأحياء أو الذين توفوا مؤخرًا، جميعها مقيدة وفق ضوابط   في بعض النُظم القضائية، وذلك بمعزل عن حالة حقوق النشر الخاصة بها. قبل استعمال هذه الأنواع من المحتوى، يُرجى منك التأكد من حصولك على حق استعمالها وفقًا للقانون الذي يتطابق مع الظروف المطلوبة لاستعمالك.  .
 قد تقرأ في ويكيبيديا معلومات وأنت في دولة أو بعض المناطق التي لا تجيز نشر مثل هذه المعلومات. يجب أن تعلم أنَّ قاعدة بيانات ويكيبيديا موجودة في الولايات المتحدة الأمريكية، ويُحافظ عليها بموجب الحماية التي تسمح بها القوانين المحلية والفدرالية هناك. القوانين التي في دولتك أو بعض مناطقها قد لا تحمي أو لا تسمح بمثل هذه الأنواع من المواد أو التوزيع. لا تشجع ويكيبيديا على خرق القوانين، ولا يمكنها أن تتحمل مسؤولية أي خروقات لهذه القوانين.
 إذا احتجت إلى مشورة اختصاصية (مثل مشورة طبية أو قانونية أو مالية أو إدارة مخاطر)، فيرجى منك أن تطلبها من أهل الاختصاص المرخصين أو المعروفين في مجالهم.


URL: https://ms.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Penafian_umum

Content: Wikipedia merupakan ensiklopedia bebas dan terbuka. Ia ialah hasil usaha gabungan penglibatan individu dan kumpulan sukarelawan yang berusaha untuk membangunkan sumber pengetahuan rujukan orang ramai. Struktur projek ini membolehkan sesiapa sahaja yang mempunyai sambungan Internet untuk mengubah kandungannya. Dengan ini, dimaklumkan bahawa sebarang maklumat dipaparkan dalam Wikipedia tidak semestinya telah dinilaikan kesahihannya oleh golongan profesional dalam sebarang bidang yang berkaitan untuk ketepatan dan kesahan maklumat. 
 Hal ini tidaklah bermakna anda tidak akan menemui sebarang maklumat tepat di Wikipedia kerana kebanyakan daripada kandungan kami dikemaskinikan dari semasa ke semasa. Namun begitu,  . Kandungan sesuatu rencana mungkin telah disunting, dirosakkan atau ditukar oleh seseorang yang mungkin berpendapat lain dalam bidang berkenaan. Untuk maklumat anda, kebanyakan daripada ensiklopedia dan bahan rujukan lain juga mempunyai penafian seperti di atas.      
 Kami sentiasa berusaha untuk memilih dan memastikan versi rencana yang dipaparkan ialah yang terbaik. Kommuniti penyunting aktif kami menggunakan peralatan seperti   dan   untuk memantau sebarang perubahan dan kandungan baharu. Namun begitu, kandungan Wikipedia tidak dinilai secara menyeluruh; walaupun pembaca mungkin membetulkan sebarang kesilapan, mereka tidak mempunyai sebarang kewajipan dari segi undang-undang untuk bertindak sedemikian. Oleh itu, kesemua informasi yang dibaca di sini adalah tanpa sebarang jaminan untuk apa-apa tujuan dan sebagainya. Kanduangan rencana yang telah dikategorikan sebagai telah dinilai atau dipilih sebagai   juga mungkin telah ditukar atau disunting sebelum anda membacanya.            
 
 Sila pastikan anda memahami bahawa maklumat di sini disediakan secara percuma, bebas dan tanpa sebarang ikatan, perjanjian atau persetujuan antara anda dengan pemilik tapak web ini dan pengguna-penggunanya, pemilik-pemilik pelayan di mana ia disimpan, para penyumbang individu Wikipedia, pentadbir projek,   atau sesiapa sahaja yang berkaitan dengan   dan projek-projek berkembarnya untuk menerima sebarang tuntutan daripada anda secara langsung. Anda hanya diizinkan lesen terhad untuk membuat salinan sebarang bahan daripada tapak web ini; kebenaran ini tidak menjadikannya atau bermaksud kontrak mahupun kontrak penambahan liabiliti kepada pihak   atau sebarang ejen-ejennya, ahli-ahlinya, pengurusannya dan pengguna-pengguna lainnya.
  untuk sebarang penggunaan atau perubahan informasi tertakluk dalam   (CC-BY-SA) dan   (GFDL); mahupun sesiapa yang berkaitan dengan Wikipedia bertanggungjawab untuk mengubah, menyunting atau memadamkan sebarang informasi yang anda mungkin tulis atau paparkan dalam Wikipedia atau projek-projek berkaitan dengannya.
 Mana-mana tanda dagangan, tanda perkhidmatan, tanda kolektif, hak reka bentuk atau hak-hak yang disertakan dan dinyatakan dalam artikel ensiklopedia   merupakan hak milik pemilik masing-masing. Penggunaan bahan tersebut di sini tidak bermakna anda boleh menggunakannya untuk kegunaan lain atau untuk penyebaran informasi seperti yang dinyatakan oleh penulis artikel Wikipedia tersebut di bawah skema perlesenan CC-BY-SA dan GFDL. Melainkan jika dinyatakan, Wikipedia dan laman-laman Wikimedia tidak berkaitan atau disahkan berhubung kait dengan mana-mana pemegang hak tersebut. Wikipedia tidak mampu memberi sebarang hak penggunaan mana-mana bahan yang dilindungi. Penggunaan bahan tersebut adalah di bawah tanggungan dan risiko anda.
 Wikipedia mungkin mengandungi bahan yang menggambarkan seseorang yang masih hidup atau meninggal dunia. Penggunaan imej-imej ini, dalam bidang kuasa tertentu, dihalang oleh undang-undang hak personaliti yang bebas daripada hak cipta bahan tersebut. Sebelum menggunakan bahan jenis ini, sila pastikan anda mempunyai hak untuk menggunakannya dalam bidang kuasa undang-undang. Anda bertanggungjawab untuk memastikan hak personaliti seseorang tidak dicabuli.
 Penerbitan informasi yang dijumpai dalam Wikipedia mungkin dianggap salah di sisi undang-undang di negara atau bidang kuass di mana anda membaca informasi ini. Pangkalan data Wikipedia disimpan dalam pelayan di Negeri Florida, Amerika Syarikat dan diselenggara mengikut peruntukan dalam undang-undang persekutuan dan tempatan Amerika Syarikat. Wikipedia tidak menggalakkan pelanggaran mana-mana undang-undang dan tidak bertanggungjawab untuk sebarang pelanggaran undang-undang yang berlaku seandainya anda menghubungkan domain ini atau menggunakan, mengeluarkan semula, atau menerbitkan maklumat yang terkandung di sini.
 Seandainya anda memerlukan sebarang nasihat (dalam bidang seperti perubatan, perundangan, kewangan atau sebagainya) sila dapatkan khidmat profesional yang berlesen atau mempunyai kepakaran dalam bidang tersebut.
 


URL: https://arz.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%D9%8A%D9%83%D9%8A%D8%A8%D9%8A%D8%AF%D9%8A%D8%A7:%D8%AA%D9%86%D8%A7%D8%B2%D9%84_%D8%B9%D9%86_%D9%85%D8%B3%D8%A6%D9%88%D9%84%D9%8A%D9%87_%D8%B9%D9%85%D9%88%D9%85%D9%89

Content: 
 ويكيبيديا ها موسوعه انترنت تعاونيه مفتوحة المحتوى, و هيا شراكه بين المتطوعين الافراد و المجموعات و اللى بيشتغلو على تطوير مصدر معرفى بشرى عام. بتسمح بنية المشروع لكل شخص متصل بالانترنت يعدل المحتوى. لازم تعرف ان مافيش فى المشروع داه حاجه بتلزم انه تمت مصادرته من اهل الخبره المؤهلين لتزويدك بمعلومات معتمده او دقيقه او كامله.
 داه ما بيعنيش انك مش هتلاقى معلومات قيمه و دقيقه فى ويكيبيديا, بالعكس فيه كتير منها, بس بالرغم من داه  , محتوى كل مقاله ممكن يكون اتعدل او   او اتغير من افراد ما بتتطابقش آرائهم مع النصوص المعرفيه فى المجالات المتعلقه بالمقاله. لاحظ ان اكتر الموسوعات و المصادر فيها اخلاء مسؤوليه كمان.
 محررو مجتمع ويكيبيديا النشطين بيستعملو ادوات زى تغذيات   و   عشان يراقبو تعديلات المحتوى و المحتوى الجديد, و بالرغم من دا ويكيبيديا مافيهاش مصادرة اقران رسميه, القراء ممكن يصححو الاخطاء او يشتركو فى الاراء, بس مش مجبرين بدا و بالتالى كل المعلومات هنا مالهاش اى ضمانات دايما, و حتى المقالات اللى تمت مراجعتها عبر الاقران الرسميه او هيا  , ممكن يحصل عليها تعديل مش مناسب قبل ما تقراها.
 
 المعلومات هنا باتقدم بشكل حر, و مافيش عقد بينك و بين مستخدمين او مسؤولين الموقع داه او مسؤولين الخوادم اللى بتستضيف معلومات الموقع, و لا الافراد المساهمين و لا اداريين المشاريع و لا مشغلين النظام, و لا كل مين ليه صله بالمشروع داه  , و لا بالمشاريع الشقيقه, كمان هما مش عرضه لادعاءاتك المباشره ضدهم. ليك رخصه محدوده بنسخ اى حاجه من الموقع داه, و الرخصه ما بتدلش لا تصريحا او تلميحا على اى التزام تعاقدى او غير تعاقدى من جهة ويكيبيديا او واحد من وكلائها او اعضائها او منظميها او مستخدمين تانيين.
 بخصوص استعمالك او تعديلك للمعلومات,   الا حسب رخصة المشاع الابداعى النسبه-الترخيص بالمثل 3.0 (CC-BY-SA) و رخصه جنو للوثائق الحره (GFDL), و ما بيتحملش اى شخص فى ويكيبيديا مسؤولية تغيير او تنقيح او تعديل او حذف معلومات ممكن تنشرها انت على ويكيبيديا او اى من المشاريع المرتبطه بيها.
 كل علامه تجاريه او علامه خدمه او علامه جماعيه او حقوق تصميم و و الى زييها من الحقوق المشار ليها او المستعمله او المستشهد بيها فى مقالات ويكيبيديا هيا ملك لاصحابها بالكامل, دا ما بيستلزمش انه جايز ليك تستعملها لاى غرض غير الاستعمال المعلوماتى المماثل او المشابه للى كان بيقصده المؤلفين الاصليين للمقالات فى ويكيبيديا حسب رخصة المشاع الابداعى النسبه-الترخيص بالمثل 3.0 (CC-BY-SA) و رخصه جنو للوثائق الحره (GFDL). مواقع ويكيبيديا و ويكيميديا ما بتديش تاييد من اصحاب الحقوق و لا المشاركه معهم, و ويكيبيديا مالهاش انها تمنح حقوق استعمال المواد المحميه الا حسب الرخص المذكوره. استخدامك لاى من المواد دى او اللى شبهها هيكون على مسؤوليتك الخاصه.
 ويكيبيديا بتحتوى مواد ممكن تظهر فيها صور اشخاص ممكن التعرف عليهم سواء كانوا عايشيين او اتوفو مؤخرا. استعمال صور الاحياء او اللى اتوفو, كلها مقيده حسب ضوابط حقوق الشخصيه فى بعض النظم القضائيه, بمعزل عن حالة حقوق النشر الخاصه بيها. قبل استعمال الانواع دى من المحتوى, لو سمحت التاكد من حصولك على حق استعمالها حسب القانون اللى بيتطابق مع الظروف المطلوبه لاستعمالك.  .
 ممكن تقرا فى ويكيبيديا معلومات و انت فى دوله او بعض المناطق اللى ما بتسمحش بنشر المعلومات دى. لازم تعرف ان قاعدة بيانات ويكيبيديا موجوده فى الولايات المتحده الامريكيه, و بيحافظ عليها بموجب الحمايه اللى بتسمح بيها القوانين المحليه و الفدراليه هناك. القوانين اللى فى دولتك او بعض مناطقها ممكن ما تحميش او ما بتسمحش ببعض الانواع من المواد او التوزيع. ويكيبيديا ما بتشجعش على خرق القوانين, و ما تقدرش تتحمل مسؤولية اى خروقات للقوانين دى.
 لو احتجت مشوره اختصاصيه (زى مشوره طبيه او قانونيه او ماليه او ادارة مخاطر), لازم تطلبها من اهل الاختصاص المرخصين او المعروفين فى مجالهم.


URL: https://mt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedija:%C4%8Aa%C4%A7da_%C4%A1enerali

Content: 
 Il-Wikipedija hija enċiklopedija kollaborativa b'kontenut ħieles, li tfisser, assoċjazzjoni volontarja ta' individwi u gruppijiet li jaħdmu flimkien sabiex jibnu proġett ta' għerf komuni. L-istruttura tal-proġett tippermetti li kwalunkwe persuna li għandu aċċess għall-internet sabiex ikun jista' jagħmel modifiki fil-kontenut. Jekk jogħġbok għaraf il-fatt li l-kontenut li jinstab hawnhekk kien neċessarjament revedut minn persuna esperta sabiex jingħata informazzjoni kompleta, preċiża u li tista' torbot fuqu.
 Dan ma jfissirx però li mintix se ssib informazzjoni preċiża u ta' valur kbir fil-Wikipedija; ħafna drabi għandek issib. Minkejja dan,   Il-kontenut ta' artiklu jista' jiġi riċentament ġie modifikat, vandalizzat jew modifikat minn persuna li huwa ta' opinjoni differenti f'dak il-qasam.
 Qegħdin naħdmu fuq mezzi sabiex nagħżlu u nimmarkaw verżjonijiet li wieħed jista' jorbot fuqhom. Il-komunità attiva ta' edituri jagħmlu użu minn għodda bħat-  u tal-  sabiex ikunu jistgħu jaraw kontenut ġdid jew modifiki li qegħdin isiru. Madankollu, il-Wikipedija ma tiġix reveduta bl-istess mod jiġifieri, waqt li qarrejja jistgħu jikkoreġu żbalji jew jieħdu sehem f' , huma m'għandhom l-ebda rabta legali u għalhekk kull informazzjoni li jinqara hawnhekk huwa implikat bla pleġġ għal kull raġuni. Anke artikli li jiġu kkorreġuti minn reviżjoni informali mill-komunità jew dawk li jkunu   jistgħu aktar tard jiġu modifikati bla rażan, qabel ma tarahom.  
 
 Kun żgur li tifhem li l-informazzjoni pprovduta hawnhekk qiegħda tiġi provduta b'xejn, u li l-ebda tip ta' qbil jew kuntratt jinħoloq bejnek u bejn is-sidien jew l-utenti ta' dan is-sit, is-sidien tas-servers fejn din tinsab, il-kontributuri individwali tal-Wikipedija, l-amministraturi ta' kwalunkwe proġett, jew xi ħadd ieħor li b'xi mod jew ieħor   ma' dan il-proġett jew proġetti relatati li huma suġġetti għad-domandi tiegħek lejhom. Inti qiegħed tingħata liċenzja limitata li tikkopja li trid minn fuq dan is-sit; min-naħa tal-Wikipedija din ma toħloqx jew timplika ebda responsabbilità kuntrattwali jew ekstra-kuntrattwali jew kwalunkwe mill-aġenti tagħha, il-membri, l-organizzaturi jew utenti oħra.
 Inti qiegħed tingħata liċensja limitata sabiex tikkopja xi affarijiet minn dan is-sit; minn naħa tal-wikipedija ma toħloqx l-ebda dejn jew qbil formali jew kwalunkwe tal-aġenti tagħha, membri, organiżaturi jew utenti oħrajn. 
 M'hemm   rigward l-użu jew modifikar ta' din l-informazzjoni li huwa 'l fuq mill-iskop tal-  (GFDL); lanqas xi ħadd mill-Wikipedija m'huwa responsabbli jekk xi ħadd ibiddel, jimmodifika jew ineħħi xi informazzjoni li int tissottometti fuq il-Wikipedija jew proġett assoċjat.  
 Kwalunkwe trejdmarks, marki tas-servizzi, marki kollettivi, drittijiet tad-disinn jew drittijiet simili li huma msemmija, użati jew kwotati fl-artikli tal-enċiklopedija tal-Wikipedija huma propjetà tas-sidien rispettivi. L-użu tagħhom hawnhekk ma timplikax li inti tista' tużahom għal xi raġunijiet oħra minbarra dak ta' l-istess użu ta' informazzjoni jew wieħed simili kif kontemplat mill-awturi oriġinali tal-artikli tal-Wikipedija taħt l-iskema ta' liċenzjar tal-GFDL. Sakemm mhux iddikjarat b'mod ieħor, il-Wikipedija u s-siti tal-Wikimedia m'huma la approvaturi u lanqas affiljati mal-ebda mis-sidiein tat-tali drittijiet u persè l-Wikipedija ma tistax tagħti drittijiet biex tuża' materjal li huwa protett. Huwa riskju tiegħek jekk tuża din il-proprjetà inkorporali jew waħda simili.
 Il-Wikipedija għandha materjal li jista' juri persuna identifikament ħajja jew persuna li mietet riċentament. L-użu ta' stampi ta' individwi ħajjin jew li għadhom kif imutu riċentament, f'ċerti kazijiet, huwa ristretti bil-liġi minħabba d-  tagħhom, li huma independenti mill-istatus tagħhom ta' copyright. Qabel ma tuża' dan it-tip ta' kontenut, aċċerta ruħek li għandek id-dritt li tużah taħt il-liġijiet li japplikaw fiċ-ċirkustanzi involuti.  
 Pubblikazzjoni ta' informazzjoni li tinsab fil-Wikipedija tista' tkun qed tivvjola l-liġijiet tal-pajjiż jew ġurisdizzjoni minn fejn qiegħda tintwera din l-informazzjoni. Id-databażi tal-Wikipedija hija maqfula f'server fl-Istat ta'   fl- , u hija mantenuta b'referenza għall-protezzjonijiet tal-mezzi pprovduti taħt il-liġijiet legali u federali. Il-liġijiet fil-pajjiż jew il-ġurisdizzjoni tiegħek jistgħu lanqas jipproteġuk jew jħalluk l-istess tip ta' taħdit u distribuzzjoni. Il-Wikipedija ma tagħtix parir li tikser xi liġijiet, u ma tistax tkun responsabbli minn dawn l-atti, jekk inti se tabbina ma' dan id-dominju jew tuża, tirriproduċi, jew terġa' tippubblika l-informazzjoni li hawn hawnhekk. 
 Jekk trid parir speċifiku (eżempju, dak mediku, legali, finanzjarju, jew l-immaniġjar tar-riskji) fittex nies professjonali li huma liċenzjati jew għandhom il-ħila f'dak il-qasam partikulari.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:CreateAccount&returnto=Wikipedia%3AGeneral+disclaimer

Content: edits articles recent contributors

URL: https://mr.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AA%E0%A5%80%E0%A4%A1%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%BE:%E0%A4%B8%E0%A4%B0%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%B8%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%A7%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%A3_%E0%A4%89%E0%A4%A4%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%A4%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%A6%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%A4%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%B8_%E0%A4%A8%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%B0

Content: 
  –   –   –   –  
 आपण मराठी     संकेतस्थळाच्या   नावाच्या सर्वसाधारण विभागात पोहोचला आहात. मराठी विकिपीडियातील कोणताही लेख किंवा पान   किंवा महाराष्ट्राबाहेरील कोणत्याही व्यक्तीचे/संस्थेचे प्रत्यक्ष किंवा अप्रत्यक्ष प्रतिनिधित्व करत नाही. कोणत्याही संस्थेची वा व्यक्तीची समस्या, तक्रार, किंवा शंका निवारण करणारे केंद्र/पान या संकेतस्थळावर -(वेब साइटवर)- उपलब्ध नाही .धन्यवाद!
 
 विकिपीडिया हा आंतरजालावरील (ऑनलाइन) मुक्तपणे मजकूर लिहिणार्‍या सहयोगी लोकांचा   (ज्ञानकोश/एनसायक्लोपीडिया) आहे.  म्हणजे  थोडक्यात, विकिपीडिया हे मानवी ज्ञानाच्या सामाईक स्रोतांवर  काम करणार्‍या स्वयंसेवी व्यक्तींचे व स्वयंसेवी गटांचे एक स्वयंस्फूर्त संघटन आहे. संगणक वापरणार्‍या व आंतरजाल जोडणी    उपलब्ध असलेल्या कुणालाही मजकुरात भर टाकता येईल किंवा त्यात बदल करता येतील अशी या प्रकल्पाची रचना आहे.  येथे लिहिलेल्या कोणत्याही गोष्टीची/माहितीची परिपूर्णता, तिचा अचूकपणा किंवा तिची विश्वासार्हता यांची संबधित विषयांतील तज्‍ज्ञ व्यक्तीकडून पडताळणी झाली असल्याची/माहितीचे समसमी़क्षण   झाले असल्याची  , हे कृपया लक्षात घ्यावे.
 याचा अर्थ असा नव्हे की, विकिपीडियात महत्त्वाची व अचूक माहिती असणारच नाही. उलट, येथे असलेली बहुतेक माहिती आपल्याला महत्त्वाची व अचूक अशीच आढळेल.
 तरीपण,   कोणत्याही लेखातील कोणताही मजकूर  खर्‍याखुर्‍या जाणकार व्यक्तीच्या मतांशी न जुळणार्‍या किंवा संबंधित क्षेत्रातील ज्ञानाच्या अद्ययावत स्थितीबद्दल  काहीच माहिती नसलेल्या व्यक्तीकडून पूर्ण अथवा अंशतः  बदललेला किंवा विध्वंसित/उत्पातित झालेला असू शकतो. येथे हे लक्षात घ्या की, इतरही बहुतेक सर्व विश्वकोशांमध्ये (एनसायक्लोपीडियाज) आणि संदर्भ ग्रंथांमध्येसुद्धा    अंतर्भूत असतात.
 आम्ही लेखांची विश्वासार्ह आवृत्ती निवडल्यानंतर तिला अपरिवर्तनीय करण्याच्या विषयात मार्ग शोधण्याच्या प्रयत्‍नात आहोत. आमचा सक्रिय संपादक समुदाय नवीन आणि बदलत्या मजकुरावर लक्ष ठेवण्यासाठी  ,   रसद   इत्यादी पूरक साधने वापरत असतो.  तरीसुद्धा, विकिपीडिया सार्वत्रिकपणे समसमिक्षीत/पडताळून झालेला नसतो; वाचक त्रुटी दूर करू शकतात किंवा  वरवरचे     करू शकतात, पण त्यांच्यावर तसे करण्याची कोणतीही अधिकृत किंवा कायद्याने बंधनकारक जबाबदारी नाही. आणि म्हणून, येथे वाचलेल्या कोणत्याही माहितीमध्ये, कोणत्याही परिस्थितीत, कोणत्याही उपयोगाकरिता किंवा कोणत्याही उद्देशाकरिता पात्रतेची हमी अंतर्भूत करता येत नाही.  अणि अगदी   सारखे (अनौपचारीक) विषयतज्ञांद्वारा मूल्यांकन  झालेले व मान्यता दिलेले लेखही    नंतरच्या काळात,  तुम्ही पहाण्याच्या अगदी अगोदर, (अगदी अपात्र व्यक्तींकडूनही), अयोग्य पद्धतीने संपादित केले गेलेले असू शकतात.
 
 येथे उपलब्ध केलेली/झालेली माहिती   स्वरूपात उपलब्ध केली जाते, हे आपणास समजले असल्याची कृपा करून खात्री करून घ्या. तुम्ही आणि या संस्थळाचे (site) मालक अथवा या संकेतस्थळाचे उपयोगकर्ते यांचा आपापसात कोणताही करार अथवा समझोता उद्भवत नाही. हे संस्थळ स्थापित असलेल्या विदादात्यांचे मालक (owners of the servers), व्यक्तिगत विकिपीडिया योगदानकर्ते,  प्रकल्प-प्रचालक(प्रबंधक), प्रचालक किंवा   या प्रकल्पाशी किंवा त्याच्या सहप्रकल्पांशी   इतर जण, यांतला कोणीही त्यांच्या विरोधातील तुमच्या कोणत्याही दाव्यास प्रत्यक्ष जबाबदार (जिम्मेवार) असणार नाही.
 तुम्हाला या संकेतस्थळावरून काहीही नकलवण्याचा  परवाना केवळ   आहे; त्यामुळे, विकिपीडियाबरोबर अथवा त्याच्या कोणत्याही प्रतिनिधी, सदस्य, संयोजक किंवा इतर सदस्याबरोबर कोणताही प्रत्यक्ष किंवा अप्रत्यक्ष करार करणे किंवा त्यांच्याकडून करारांतर्गत अथवा करारेतर  कायदेशीर दायित्व (जबाबदारी) घेणे संभवत नाही. दायित्व (जबाबदारी) निर्मिती करेल असा कोणताही करार कोणत्याही प्रकारे स्वीकारार्ह असणार नाही.  
 
 
तुमच्या या संकेतस्थळाच्या अथवा सहप्रकल्पांच्या उपयोगाच्या, किंवा माहितीतील बदलांच्या संदर्भाने   (CC-BY-SA) आणि the   (GFDL)च्या परिघापलीकडे  "तुमच्यात आणि विकिपीडियात कोणताही समझोता अथवा करार नाही";  प्रकल्पावर तुम्ही चढवलेली कोणतीही माहिती/मजकूर दुसर्‍या कुणीही पूर्णपणे अथवा अंशतः संपादित करून तिच्यात बदल केल्यास, अगर काही किंवा संपूर्ण माहिती वगळल्यास; विकिपीडिया किंवा संबंधित दुसरे कुणीही त्याला जबाबदार असणार नाहीत.
 विकिपीडिया विश्वकोश (एनसायक्लोपीडिया)च्या पानातून /लेखातून नमूद केलेली, वापरलेली (used) किंवा संदर्भ दिलेली कोणतीही व्यापार चिन्हे, सेवा चिन्हे (service marks), collective marks, design rights हे, त्यांच्या संबंधित मालकांची संपत्ती आहेत. त्यांचा (इतरांच्या संपत्तीचा), या विकिपीडियातील लेखातील मूळ लेखकास असलेल्या CC-BY-SA आणि GFDL ने अभिप्रेत अशा परवान्याअतंर्गत, समान माहितीच्या पलीकडे तुम्ही उपयोग करू शकता, असा त्याचा अर्थ होत नाही (म्हणजे उपयोग करू शकत नाही).
 तसे स्पष्ट अधिकृतपणे नमूद नसल्यास, विकिपीडिया आणि Wikimedia सारखी संकेतस्थळे  अशा कोणत्याही मालकी हक्कदारांनी दुजोरा दिलेली   endorsed अथवा त्यांच्याशी जोडली गेलेली affiliated नाहीत, असेच अपेक्षित आहे. आणि अर्थातच त्यामुळे, विकिपीडिया अन्यथा otherwise  सुरक्षित अशी साधनसामग्री materials वापरण्यास कोणतीही परवानगी देऊ शकत नाही/देत नाही.  अथवा अशा प्रकारच्या कोणत्याही अमूर्त सामग्रीचा incorporeal property   केलेला कोणताही उपयोग सर्वस्वी तुमच्या स्वतःच्या जबाबदारीवर असेल.
 जीवित अथवा अलीकडेच मृत झालेल्या, आणि नावावरून सहज ओळख पटेल अशा व्यक्तींची माहिती विकिपीडियात प्रकाशित झालेली असू शकते. अशा व्यक्तीचे चित्र किंवा छायाचित्र त्या व्यक्तीच्या किंवा तिच्या वारसाच्या/परिवारातल्या व्यक्तीच्या नकळत किंवा तिच्या/त्यांच्या परवानगीशिवाय वापरणे रूढ संकेताचा भंग करणारे असू शकते. काही देशातील काही कायद्यांनुसार, जीवित अथवा हल्लीहल्ली मृत झालेल्या व्यक्तीच्या चित्रांचा/छायाचित्रांचा   क्षेत्रात मोडणारा वापर प्रतिबंधित केलेला असू शकतो;  हे प्रतिबंधन प्रताधिकारांशिवायचे असण्याची शक्यता आहे. त्यामुळे,    इतरांच्या व्यक्तिस्वातंत्र्याचा संकोच न करण्याची जबाबदारी केवळ तुमची स्वतःची आहे.
 विकिपीडिया contains मजकुर which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or deceased recently.  The use of images of living or recently deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, कृपया ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.   
 ज्या देशातून तुम्ही माहिती पहात आहात त्या देशातील कायद्यानुसार, विकिपीडियात प्रकाशित झालेली एखादी माहिती पाहणे बेकायदेशीर किंवा तिथल्या प्रचलित नियमांचे उल्लंघन करणारे असण्याची शक्यता आहे.  विकिपीडियातील विदा (database)   अमेरिकेमधील   राज्य येथील विदादाता (server) वर संग्रहित केला जातो.  आणि तेथील स्थानिक आणि संघीय कायद्यातील सुरक्षा तरतुदींनुसार सुचालित (maintaine) केली जाते . तुमच्या देशातील कायदे  अशा पद्धतीच्या बोलण्यास, लिहिण्यास वा  मांडणी वितरणास मान्यता अथवा संरक्षण देत असेलच असे नाही. विकिपीडिया कोणत्याही कायद्याच्या उल्लंघनास उत्तेजन देत नाही; आणि म्हणून जर तुम्ही या संकेतस्थळाचा (domain)  दुवा दिलात, येथील उपलब्ध माहिती वापरली , पुनःप्रसारित किंवा पुनःप्रकाशित केली, आणि असे करताना नियमभंग झाला, तर अशा कोणत्याही रीतीने कायद्याच्या किंवा नियमाच्या उल्लंघनास विकिपीडिया किंवा विकिमिडिया जबाबदार नाही..
 जर तुम्हाला वैद्यकीय, कायदा, आर्थिक किंवा जोखीम व्यवस्थापन किंवा अशाच एखाद्या विशिष्ट क्षेत्रातील सल्ल्याची गरज असेल तर असा सल्ला आपण कृपया, परवानाधारक किंवा त्या क्षेत्रातील ज्ञानवंत असेल अशा व्यक्तीकडूनच मिळवावा. विकिपीडिया ही संस्था, असा व्यावसायिक सल्ला देत नाही.
 हे disclaimer इंग्रजी विकिपीडियावरून भाषांतरित केले आहे. जिथे शंका असेल तिथे, मूळ इंग्रजी विकिपीडियातील इंग्रजी उतारा तपासून घ्यावा. या लेखातील तसेच मराठी विकिपीडिया किंवा तिच्या मराठी भाषेतील सहप्रकल्पातील भाषांतराच्या अचूकतेची कोणतीही जबाबदारी मराठी विकिपीडिया किंवा इथे कार्यरत संपादक घेत नाहीत. कायदेशीर वा कोर्ट कार्यवाहीसाठी, वा भाषांतराचा वाद उद्भवल्यास, इंगजी विकिपीडियावरचे disclaimer हे ग्राह्य धरण्यात यावे.   
 खाली केवळ या लेखाच्या संदर्भात लागू पडणार्‍या उपयुक्त तांत्रिक शब्दांचे सामान्य अर्थ दिले आहेत. या लेखास कायदा विषयातील जाणकार व्यक्तीच्या साहाय्याची आवश्यकता आहे. 


URL: https://ln.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Boyanoli_ndelo

Content: 
 Wikipedia ekomámí na bato baye balingí kosálisa, baye bazalí basáli tɛ́, bazwí mosɔ́lɔ́ tɛ́. Bakokí kokoma nkomá ya bosɔ̂lɔ́ kasi mpé bakokí komíkósa mpé kosála zíko.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Roland_Bartetzko&curid=55626984&action=history

Content: For any version listed below, click on its date to view it. For more help, see   and  .   from current version,   from preceding version,  ,  ,  


URL: https://li.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Algemein_aafwiezing_aansjpraokelikheid

Content: Dees internet-encyclopedie weurt oeteindelijk gesjreve doer jikkerinne dae mit wil sjrieve. Ondanks dat vriewal jikkerinne dae mithölp korrekte informatie prebiert te versjtrèkke kint d'r gein garantie weure gegaeve betriffende de informatie hie. Jikkerinne dae zichzelf deskundig vink maog de tèks verangere. 'n Dudelike fout zal anger medewerkers waal sjnel opvalle en waarsjienlik weure verbaeterd. De tendens is dat artikele oetgebreider en correcter weure. 
 't Is versjtendeg om veur belangrieke dinger naeve dees encyclopedie auch angere nasjlaagwirke of sjpesjelistiese beuk te laeze.
 As e dinks ein   te zeen, bis e wèlkóm om die metein te verbaetere, of - in geval van twiefel 'n opmerking achter te laote op de   van de betriffende pazjena.
 De vriewilligers die dees encyclopedie sjrieve aanvaarde gein aansjpraokelikheid veur de korrektheid van de gegaeve informatie. Ze kinne zelfs neet garandere dat de auteurs zorgvuldigheid zint gewaes bie 't formulere van de artikele. Gebroek van de informatie is gans vrie, meh dan waal veur eige risico.
 D'r zint gebroekers ( ) die op dees website extra meugelikheid op technisch nivo höbbe. Zoas 't weghaole van pazjena's, beveilige van pazjena's en 't ontnömme van sjriefrechte aan gebroekers. Dit zint meugelijkheid die gewoen gebroekers neet höbbe. Deze groep van vriewilligers zint neet de webmasters mer ieder de conciërges van Wikipedia. 't Is 'n oetveurende functie. 't Dageliks besjtuur van de Limburgse Wikipedia besjtit oet de gemeinsjap van de Limburgse Wikipedia.
 Op juridies vlak is de   de eindverantwoerdelikke.
 Als d'r volgens uch ein probleem is, num dan iesjt contac op mèt de Limburgse Wikipedia. As geer een klach wilt versjture dan is dat auch meugelik, op 't Ingelsj, nao:
 Al 't tekstuele matteriaal op Wikipedia vilt onger de  -licentie. Wèn se sjtuk zuus dat urges angesj vandaan kump (book, website...), zonger permissie van de auteursrechhubbende, mèld 't dan of veranger de tèks zelf.


URL: https://hu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:Jogi_nyilatkozat

Content: 
 
 A   nyílt tartalmú online lexikon, vagyis személyek és csoportok szerveződése annak érdekében, hogy az emberi tudás egyetemes gyűjteményét hozzák létre és azt folyamatosan fejlesszék. A felépítése lehetővé teszi bármely internet kapcsolattal és World Wide Web eléréssel rendelkező egyénnek, hogy az itt található tartalmakat tetszőlegesen módosítsa. Ezért mindenképpen vedd figyelembe, hogy semmiféle itt olvasható tartalom nem ment át olyan szaklektoráláson vagy ellenőrzésen, melyet az adott területek szakértői végeztek volna annak érdekében, hogy biztosítsák, hogy az adott szócikkek szakmailag teljes, pontos vagy megbízható információkat tartalmaznak bármilyen, a Wikipédiában olvasható témában.
 Ez egyáltalán nem jelenti azt, hogy a Wikipédia nem értékes, hasznos és pontos információkat tartalmaz, azonban  . Lehetséges, hogy az információt percekkel korábban módosította valaki, akinek a tudása, szándéka vagy véleménye nem esik egybe az adott területen elvárhatóval. Jelenleg is dolgozunk egy olyan megoldáson, ami lehetővé teszi a szócikkek „megbízható változatának” elérését (ez egyelőre nem jelent tartalmi ellenőrzést, csak az úgynevezett   és a nyilvánvalóan értelmetlen tartalom kiszűrését). Az ellenőrzöttséghez legközelebb álló lehetőség jelenleg a   csoportja, de ezeket a szócikkeket sem ellenőrizte független szakértői gárda, és bárki szerkeszthette a közelmúltban úgy, hogy a változtatást érdemben (azaz szakmailag) még senki nem ellenőrizte.
 A Wikipédia nem folyamatosan ellenőrzött kiadvány. Míg bármely résztvevő képes a hibák kijavítására vagy a téves információk eltávolítására, senki nem köteles ezt megtenni, emiatt semmilyen a Wikipédiában található információval kapcsolatban nem vállalunk garanciát, és nem vállaljuk, hogy az információ bármilyen hasznos célra felhasználható volna.
 
 Kérünk, hogy a szükséges körültekintéssel járj el annak érdekében, hogy meggyőződj arról, hogy a Wikipédia cikkek tartalma helyes és megfelel a céljaidnak. Ha bármilyen veszélyes, illegális vagy etikátlan tartalommal találkozol, vedd figyelembe, hogy ezt az információt bárki elhelyezhette a Wikipédián, és semmi garancia nincs arra, hogy megfelelő jogosultságokkal vagy képességekkel rendelkezik arra nézve, hogy a leírt tevékenység vagy dolog használata vagy alkalmazása biztonságos vagy legális, megfelel annak hogy megelőzze a sérülést, betegséget vagy bármilyen személyi, erkölcsi vagy jogi kárt. Ha szakszerű tanácsra van szükséged (például orvosi, jogi, vagy pénzügyi tanácsokra), akkor vedd fel a kapcsolatot az e téren tevékenykedő szakemberekkel.
 A Wikipédia nem vonható felelősségre semmilyen a benne található információ által okozott kárért, mivel ez magánszemélyek önkéntes társasága azon célból, hogy nyílt oktatási, kulturális és információs erőforrást hozzanak létre. Ez a közlés egyoldalú és tájékoztató jellegű, így nem képez szerződést vagy megegyezést közted és a Wikipédia között a   feltételein túl, amennyiben követed az  .
 
 A Wikipédia számos orvostudományi témakörbe tartozó szócikket tartalmaz, de semmiféle garancia sincs arra, hogy ezen szócikkek tartalma pontos. Nincs biztosíték arra sem, hogy az orvostudományi szócikkekben található állítások és kijelentések teljes mértékben igazak, helyesek, vagy precízek. Még ha egy állítás szerint egy gyógymód egy esetre megfelelő, az nem jelenti azt, hogy az Önre vagy az Ön tüneteire érvényes.
 A Wikipédián található orvosi információk legjobb esetben is csak általános tanácsok, mivel nem helyettesítik, és nem is helyettesíthetik az orvosi végzettségű szakértő (orvos, pszichiáter, ápoló, gyógyszerész, stb.) javallatát. A Wikipédia nem orvosi tanácsadó!
 Sem a Wikipedia.org, sem a   nem hozható összefüggésbe orvosi szolgáltatások, szakvélemények stb. ajánlásával vagy felkínálásával. Természetesen támogatjuk Önt abban, hogy közreműködjön az orvostudományi vagy egészséggel kapcsolatos témakörökben, és az itt található anyagokat is felhasználhatja a   licenc szerint.
 
 A Wikipédia számos   cikket tartalmaz, de semmi nem garantálja e cikkek pontosságát. Semmiképpen nem szavatolhatjuk azt, hogy ezen cikkek tartalma jogi szempontból igaz, pontos és helyes. A jogszabályok jelentős része országról országra változik, esetenként igen gyorsan módosulhat. Még ha egy kijelentés a jogszabályokról pontos, akkor is előfordulhat, hogy csak az adott jogi környezetben vagy az információt közlő személy esetében helytálló; lehetséges az is, hogy az információ közlése óta a jogszabályok megváltoztak, módosították őket, hatályon kívül helyezték, esetleg más jogszabályokkal helyettesítették azóta, hogy a közlés a Wikipédiában megjelent.
 A Wikipédiában megjelenő információ a legjobb esetben is általános esetekre vonatkozik és semmiképpen sem helyettesítheti a témában jártas szakértő jogász tanácsát, aki az eset körülményeit pontosan figyelembe véve képes jogi tájékoztatást adni. Az ajánljuk, vedd fel a kapcsolatot jogi szaktanácsadásra szakosodott személlyel vagy céggel annak érdekében, hogy megfelelő jogi tanácsot kaphass.
 Természetesen arra biztatunk, hogy minél több   kapcsolatos szócikket írj, illetve a joggal kapcsolatos szócikkek tartalmát segíts pontosítani és aktualizálni bármilyen Creative Commons Nevezd meg! – Így add tovább! 4.0 licencnek megfelelő anyag felhasználásával.


URL: https://lij.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Avertense_gener%C3%A2li

Content: Avertense generale
-   
-   
-   
-   
 
 
 
A   a l'è un'enciclopedia online a contegnuo averto, fruto do travaggio de 'n insemme de volontai, co-o scopo de svilupâ 'na fonte de conoscença comun e libera. Sciben che gh'é de   e 'n scistema non ofiçiale de gestion anonimo e volontaio, a strutua de l'enciclopedia a permette a chi se sæ de modificâ o contegnuo de so pagine. 
 Pertanto, l'è necesaio tegnî a mente che: 
 
 
 . Sta cösa chi, naturalmente, a no l'inplica a mancança d'informaçioin interesante ò acuræ, ma l'é inportante savei che in sciâ Wikipedia ògni contegnuo o poeu ese modificòu, alteròu ò   da chi se segge. Questo scignifica che ogni dæto o informaçion prezente inte voxe da Wikipedia o poriæ no ritrae adeguatamente l'efetivo stato da conoscença condivisa ò a veitæ di fæti. Quarche ediçioin lengoisteghe da Wikipedia àn adotòu di  , ma senpre in forma volontaia e sença garançia. A cosa ciù vexinn-a a questo scistema de seleçion a l'è l'attuale seçion " ", ma ascì e voxe çitæ in essa porieivan ese stæte modificæ sença o contròllo necesaio. 
 
 
E informaçioin riportæ son fornie in mainea libera e gratoita; nisciun tipo d'acòrdio ò contræto o l'è stipulòu, manco inpliçitamente, tra l'utente e i propietai do scito, i utenti, i propietai di server, i aministratoî do progetto, i aministratoî de scistema ò qualonque atra parte a segge   a-a Wikipedia ò a-i progetti colaterali.
 Qualunque marco registròu, marco de serviçio, marco coletivo, drito de design, drito d'inmaggine, de confidençialitæ ò driti scimili, mençionæ ò dêuviæ inte voxe da Wikipedia, o l'é de propietæ di legittimi detentoî. Tutto o materiale inseio inta Wikipedia o ven pubricou da-i utenti (di quæ l'è conservou l'adresso IP a scopo caotelativo) segondo quante previsto da-e liçençie   e  . A Wikipedia a no poeu garantî che i utenti aggian seguio effettivamente quante previsto da-e liçençie sença lede arcun drito: a responsabilitæ da pubricaçion a l'aresta pertanto escluxiva di utenti. Se no diversamente diciarou, i sciti de Wikipedia e Wikimedia no son ni associæ a, ni approvæ da arcun di detentoî de tæ driti.   e a l'è espressamente vietâ.
 L'è garantio 'na liçençia limitâ de coppia di contegnui (segondo e condiçioin previste da-e liçençie   e  ), ma ciò no crea ni implica arcun-a responsabilitæ contrattuale ò extra-contrattuale da parte da Wikipedia ò de 'n qualunque di so agenti, membri, organizzatoî ò atre parte.
 
 
E informaçioin presente porieivan violâ quarche lezze do loeugo da-o quæ vegnan consurtæ. A Wikipedia a scoragisce a violaçion d'ogni lezze, ma percose e informaçioin son conservæ insce di server sciti in  , inti  , se mantegne comme rifeimento e dispoxiçioin generale stabilie da-o   da   e da-a   de  . E lezze do to paise porieivan no riconosce 'na proteçion do drito de parolla coscì ampia. A Wikipedia a no poeu ese consciderâ responsabile pe 'na qualunque violaçion into caxo, per exempio, se faççe a conescion ò s'adoeuvie un-a de informaçioin inte 'n paise into quæ tâ açion a constitoisce un illeççito.
 
 
Leze ascì i avertençe  ,   e   pe-e liberatoie ò pe de claosole speciffiche d'escluxon de responsabilitæ ( ).
 , percose essa a l'è un'associaçion volontaia d'individdoi solo in parte strutturâ e svilupâ liberamente pe creâ de risorse educative, colturali e informative, online e "averte".   e   circa o so utilizzo ò modiffica, a parte o rispetto de liçençie   e  ; a-o mæximo moddo, nisciun inta Wikipedia l'è responsabile pe-o fæto che chissessæ cange, modifiche ò rimoeuve qualunque informaçion che qualunque atro ò lê mæximo o posse avei inseio inta Wikipedia ò inte un quassessæ di so progetti associæ.
 O contegnuo de sta paggina o s'applica a   presente in Wikipedia.
 Graççie pe-o tempo che t'hæ dedicou a-a lettua de sti avertençe generale: t'aguemo 'na navegaçion utile e piaxeive in sciâ Wikipedia.


URL: https://ml.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B4%B5%E0%B4%BF%E0%B4%95%E0%B5%8D%E0%B4%95%E0%B4%BF%E0%B4%AA%E0%B5%80%E0%B4%A1%E0%B4%BF%E0%B4%AF:%E0%B4%AA%E0%B5%8A%E0%B4%A4%E0%B5%81%E0%B4%A8%E0%B4%BF%E0%B4%B0%E0%B4%BE%E0%B4%95%E0%B4%B0%E0%B4%A3%E0%B4%82

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content.  Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
 സ്വതന്ത്ര ഉള്ളടക്കങ്ങളുള്ളതും, ഓൺലൈനിൽ ‍സംയുക്തമായി രചിക്കപ്പെടുന്നതുമായ ഒരു വിജ്ഞാനകോശമാണ് വിക്കിപീഡിയ. അതായത്, മനുഷ്യവിജ്ഞാനത്തിന് ഒരു പൊതുഭണ്ഡാരം സൃഷ്ടിക്കുക എന്ന ഉദ്ദേശത്തോടെ യോജിച്ചു പ്രവർത്തിക്കുന്ന വ്യക്തികളടങ്ങുന്ന സന്നദ്ധസംഘടനയുടെയും കൂട്ടായ്മയുടെയും (പരിശ്രമഫലം)  ആണെന്നർത്ഥം. ഈ സംരംഭത്തിന്റെ ഘടന, ഇന്റർനെറ്റ് സൗകര്യമുള്ള ആർക്കും ഉള്ളടക്കം മാറ്റുന്നതിന് അനുവാദം നൽകുന്നുണ്ട്. (അതുകൊണ്ട്,) ഇവിടെ കാണുന്ന യാതൊന്നും തന്നെ, താങ്കൾക്ക് കൃത്യവും, പൂർണ്ണവും, വിശ്വസനീയവുമായ വിവരങ്ങൾ പ്രദാനം ചെയ്യുന്നവിധം വിദഗ്ദ്ധരായവർ സംശോധന നടത്തിയിട്ടുണ്ടാവണമെന്നില്ല.  
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.  However,    The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.  Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works  .
 എന്നാൽ, ഇവിടെ നിന്ന് നിങ്ങൾക്ക് വിലപ്പെട്ടതും സൂക്ഷമവുമായ വിവരങ്ങൾ ലഭിക്കുകയില്ല എന്ന് അതിനർത്ഥമില്ല; മറിച്ച്, മിക്കസമയവും അതു ലഭിക്കുക തന്നെ ചെയ്യും. എന്നാൽ,  . (ഇവിടുത്തെ) ഏതൊരു കൃതിയും, അതാതു വിജ്ഞാനശാഖകളിൽ നിലവിലുള്ള അറിവുമായി പൊരുത്തപ്പെടുന്നില്ലെന്ന് കരുതുന്ന ഒരാൾ, തൊട്ടുമുൻപ് തിരുത്തുകയോ, മാറ്റുകയോ അല്ലെങ്കിൽ വികൃതമാക്കുകയോ ചെയ്തിട്ടുണ്ടാവാം.  ഇതേ രീതിയിലുള്ള സാധുതാനിരാകരണപ്രസ്താവനകൾ മറ്റു വിജ്ഞാനകോശങ്ങളിലും അവലംബഗ്രന്ഥങ്ങളിലും ചേർക്കുന്നുണ്ടെന്നുകൂടി ശ്രദ്ധിക്കുമല്ലോ.
 
 We are working on ways to select and highlight reliable versions of articles.  Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content.  However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever.  Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 ലേഖനങ്ങളുടെ ഏറ്റവും മെച്ചപ്പെട്ട പതിപ്പുകൾ ഉണ്ടാക്കുവാനും പ്രസിദ്ധീകരിക്കുവാനും ഞങ്ങൾ ശ്രമിച്ചുവരികയാണ്. ഞങ്ങളുടെ സജീവ സംശോധകസമൂഹം,  ,   തുടങ്ങിയ ഉപാധികൾ ഉപയോഗിച്ച്, പുതിയതും മാറ്റപ്പെടുന്നതുമായ ലേഖനങ്ങൾ സദാ നിരീക്ഷിച്ചു വരുന്നുണ്ട്. എന്നാൽ, വിക്കിപീഡിയ (ലേഖനങ്ങളെല്ലാം) ഒരേപോലെ സംശോധന ചെയ്തിട്ടുള്ളവയല്ല.  ലേഖനങ്ങളിലെ പിശകുകൾ തിരുത്തുകയോ, ഇടയ്ക്ക് വായനക്കാർ   ചെയ്യുമെങ്കിലും , അപ്രകാരം ചെയ്യാൻ അവർക്ക് നിയമബാദ്ധ്യതയൊന്നും ഇല്ല; അതിനാൽ, ഇവിടെ വായിക്കാവുന്ന ലേഖനങ്ങൾക്കൊന്നും, ഏതെങ്കിലും ഉപയോഗത്തിനോ, ലക്ഷ്യത്തിനോ യോജിക്കുന്നതാണെന്ന് അപ്രകടിതമായ ഉറപ്പ് ഒന്നും തന്നെ  വാഗ്ദാനം ചെയ്യുന്നില്ല. കൂടാതെ അനൗപചാരികമായി പരിശോധിച്ച് അംഗീകരിച്ച ലേഖനങ്ങളോ   ലേഖനങ്ങൾ ‍പോലുമോ പിന്നീട്,  താങ്കൾ കാണുന്നതിനു തൊട്ടു മുൻപായി, യോജിക്കാത്ത വിധം മാറ്റിയിട്ടുണ്ടാവാം.
 
 
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 ഇവിടെയുള്ള  വിവരങ്ങൾ സൗജന്യമായി നൽകിയിരിക്കുന്നവയാണെന്നും, താങ്കളും, ഈ സൈറ്റിന്റെ ഉടമകളും, ഉപയോക്താക്കളും, ഇതു സൂക്ഷിച്ചിരിക്കുന്ന സെർവറിന്റെ ഉടമകളും, ദാതാക്കളായ വ്യക്തികളും, പദ്ധതിഭരണകർത്താക്കളും, സിസോപ്പുകളും അല്ലെങ്കിൽ ഈ പദ്ധതിയുമായോ, സഹസംരംഭങ്ങളുമായോ   തമ്മിൽ ഏതെങ്കിലും തരത്തിലുള്ള കരാറോ, സമ്മതമോ, ഉണ്ടാക്കിയിട്ടില്ലെന്നും താങ്കളുടെ കഷ്ടനഷ്ടാവകാശങ്ങൾക്ക് നേരിട്ട് ഉത്തരവാദികളോ ആവുന്നില്ലെന്നും താങ്കൾ ശരിയായി മനസ്സിലാക്കുന്നുവെന്ന് ഉറപ്പാക്കണം. താങ്കൾക്ക്, ഈ സൈറ്റിൽ നിന്ന് പകർപ്പെടുക്കുവാനുള്ള പരിമിതാനുമതി മാത്രമേ നൽകുന്നുള്ളൂ, അത്, വിക്കിപീഡിയക്കോ, അതിന്റെ പ്രതിനിധികൾക്കോ, അംഗങ്ങൾക്കോ, സംഘാടകർക്കോ മറ്റുപയോക്താക്കൾക്കോ ഏതെങ്കിലും തരത്തിൽ കരാർ പ്രകാരമോ കരാറിനപ്പുറത്തോ ഉള്ള ബാദ്ധ്യത സൃഷ്ടിക്കുന്നില്ല.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC-BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 ക്രിയേറ്റീവ് കോമൺസ് ആട്രിബ്യൂഷൻ ഷെയർ-എലൈക് 3.0 അൺപോർട്ടെഡ് ലൈസൻസ്  (  (CC-BY-SA)),  (    എന്നിവയ്ക്കുപരി, ഇവിടെയുള്ള വിവരങ്ങൾ താങ്കൾ ഉപയോഗിക്കുന്നതോ, പരിഷ്കരിക്കുന്നതോ സംബന്ധിച്ച്,  ; കൂടാതെ, താങ്കൾ വിക്കിപീഡിയയിലോ അതിന്റെ മറ്റു സഹസംരംഭങ്ങളിലോ ചേർക്കുന്ന എതെങ്കിലും വിവരം മറ്റാളുകൾ മാറ്റുന്നതിലോ, തിരുത്തുന്നതിലോ, പരിഷ്കരിക്കുന്നതിലോ, വിക്കിപീഡിയയിലെ ആർക്കും ഉത്തരവാദിത്തം ഉണ്ടായിരിയ്ക്കുന്നതുമല്ല.
 
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 വിക്കിപീഡിയയിലെ ലേഖനങ്ങളിൽ പ്രതിപാദിച്ചിരിക്കുന്നതോ ഉപയോഗിച്ചിരിക്കുനതോ അല്ലെങ്കിൽ സൂചിപ്പിച്ചിരിക്കുന്നതോ ആയ വാണിജ്യചിഹ്നങ്ങൾ, സേവനചിഹ്നങ്ങൾ  , സംഘടനാചിഹ്നങ്ങൾ  ‍, രൂപകല്പനാവകാശങ്ങൾ, വ്യക്തിഗത അവകാശങ്ങൾ അല്ലെങ്കിൽ സമാനമായ അവകാശങ്ങൾ തുടങ്ങിയവ അതാത് ഉടമകളുടെ സ്വന്തമാണ്. അവ ഇവിടെ ഉപയോഗിച്ചിരിക്കുന്നതുകൊണ്ട്, താങ്കൾക്ക് അത്, CC-BY-SA, ഗ്നൂ  എന്നീ അനുമതി സമ്പ്രദായങ്ങൾക്കു കീഴിൽ എഴുതിയ വിക്കിപീഡിയ ലേഖനത്തിന്റെ ലേഖകർ ഉദ്ദേശിച്ച അതേ അനൗപചാരിക ഉപയോഗത്തിനോ, സമാന ഉപയോഗത്തിനോ അല്ലാതെ മറ്റുകാര്യങ്ങൾക്ക് ഉപയോഗിക്കാമെന്ന്  അർത്ഥമില്ല. മറിച്ച് എവിടെയെങ്കിലും പറഞ്ഞിട്ടില്ലെങ്കിൽ, വിക്കിപീഡിയ, വിക്കിമീഡിയ സൈറ്റുകൾക്ക് അത്തരം അവകാശികളുമായി ധാരണയോ ബന്ധങ്ങളോ ഇല്ല; അതുകൊണ്ട്, ഏതെങ്കിലും തരത്തിൽ പകർപ്പവകാശസംരക്ഷണമുള്ള കാര്യങ്ങളുടെ അവകാശം കൈമാറാൻ കഴിയില്ല. അത്തരം ഏതെങ്കിലും അമൂർത്ത വസ്തുക്കളോ സമാനസംജ്ഞകളോ താങ്കൾ ഉപയോഗിക്കുന്നത്, താങ്കളുടെ സ്വന്തം ഉത്തരവാദിത്തത്തിലായിരിക്കും.
 
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce or republish the information contained herein.
 വിക്കിപീഡിയയിൽ കാണുന്ന വിവരങ്ങൾ പ്രസിദ്ധീകരിക്കുന്നത് താങ്കൾ ഈ വിവരങ്ങൾ നോക്കുന്ന സ്ഥലത്തെ അല്ലെങ്കിൽ നിയമമേഖലയിലെ  നിയമമോ ലംഘിക്കുന്നത് ആയിരിക്കാം. വിക്കിപ്പിഡിയയിലെ വിവരസമാഹാരം സൂക്ഷിച്ചിരിക്കുന്നത്,   സ്ഥാപിച്ചിരിക്കുന്ന സേർവറുകളിലാണ്, അത് അന്നാട്ടിലെ  തദ്ദേശ-കേന്ദ്ര ഭരണകൂടനിയമങ്ങൾ അനുസരിച്ചു സൂക്ഷിക്കപ്പെട്ടിട്ടുള്ളവയാണ്.  താങ്കളുടെ രാജ്യത്തെയോ  നിയമമേഖലയിലെ‍യോ നിയമങ്ങൾ, സമാനമായ  അഭിപ്രായപ്രകടനമോ വിതരണസ്വാതന്ത്ര്യമോ അനുവദിക്കുന്നില്ലെന്നു വരാം. വിക്കിപീഡിയ, യാതൊരു തരത്തിലും നിയമലംഘനം പ്രോത്സാഹിപ്പിക്കുന്നില്ല; മാത്രവുമല്ല, താങ്കൾ, ഈ സൈറ്റിലേക്കു കണ്ണി നൽകുകയോ, ഉപയോഗിക്കുകയോ, പുനർനിർമ്മിക്കുകയോ, ഇവിടെയുള്ള വിവരങ്ങൾ പുനഃപ്രസിദ്ധീകരിക്കുകയോ ചെയ്യുമ്പോൾ സംഭവിക്കുന്ന അത്തരം നിയമലംഘനങ്ങൾക്ക് വിക്കിപീഡിയ ഉത്തരവാദിയായിരിക്കുന്നതുമല്ല.
 
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.
 താങ്കൾക്ക് ഏതെങ്കിലും കാര്യത്തിൽ ഉപദേശങ്ങൾ ആവശ്യമുണ്ടെങ്കിൽ‍ (ഉദാഹരണത്തിന്, വൈദ്യോപദേശമോ, നിയമോപദേശമോ, സാമ്പത്തികോപദേശമോ അല്ലെങ്കിൽ നഷ്ടസാദ്ധ്യതാ ഉപദേശമോ), ദയവായി (അപ്രകാരം ഉപദേശങ്ങൾ നൽകുവാൻ) നിയമപരമായ അധികാരമുള്ളവരേയോ, അതാതു രംഗത്തെ വിദഗ്ദ്ധരേയോ, സമീപിക്കണം.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Roland_Bartetzko&curid=55626984&diff=1220313082&oldid=1213365623

Content:  (born 1970) is a former German soldier and convicted terrorist who fought with the   in the   (1992–1995) and the   in the   (1998–1999).
 In 2001, Bartetzko orchestrated a    outside a Yugoslav government office in  , killing one   civilian, and injuring four others. After his   was found on the detonator, he was arrested and charged with  ,   and  , becoming the first Westerner to be indicted on these charges in post-war Kosovo.
 The following year, he was convicted on all counts by an international court under the supervision of the   (UNMIK), and sentenced to 23 years' imprisonment. Bartetzko's sentence was later commuted to 20 years' imprisonment. He was released on   in 2015. He has maintained his innocence and claims he was framed by UNMIK. He wrote a book in 2018.
 Bartetzko was born in the town of   near   in 1970.  He joined the   in 1987.  By the time he was dishonorably discharged from the Bundeswehr in 1992, he had reached the rank of   ( :  ). In 1992, he travelled to the   to fight in the  , where he joined the   (HVO).  
 "To be able to call myself a soldier, I thought I had to fight, otherwise, I could have joined a paintball club." Bartetzko was one of approximately 100 German citizens who volunteered to fight with the HVO, most of whom were  . Bartetzko has denied being a  .  He was assigned to the Ante "Bruno" Bušić Brigade, which fought the   (ARBiH) He also fought during the  . 
 Bartetzko left the HVO in April 1994, citing the "very cruel scenes, which could be described as atrocities," as he witnessed being committed by his fellow HVO fighters.  He subsequently volunteered to fight with the   and participated in   in the closing stages of the Bosnian War. Upon returning to Germany, Bartetzko was arrested for allegedly stealing a woman's handbag. Following the outbreak of the   in February 1998, Bartetzko travelled to  ,  . He subsequently crossed the Albanian–Yugoslav border into Kosovo and joined the   (KLA) as a volunteer. During his time with the KLA, he assumed the    , the eighth month of the  . 
 On 18 April 2001, a   exploded near the   in  , the headquarters of the Yugoslav passport office in Kosovo, killing one civilian and wounding four others, including a woman who was left with serious injuries.  Yugoslav government official Aleksandar Petrović was later identified as the man killed in the bombing. The device used in the attack was filled with metal fragments.  According to the   (UNMIK)   Andrea Angeli, it contained around 10 kilograms (22 lb) of explosive. "For the future of Kosovo it could not be a more tragic incident," UNMIK police spokesperson Derek Chappell stated. "This is an attack against everything that people trying to build this country are working for." 
 The crime scene was quickly secured by UNMIK police and     personnel. UNMIK and KFOR soon discovered the detonator that had been used in the attack and that Bartetzko's   were on it.  Bartetzko was arrested several days after the bombing.  He was charged with  ,   and  .  He was the first Westerner to be charged with murder in post-war Kosovo. 
 In 2001, Bartetzko was   from the Bundeswehr under Paragraph 55 (5) of the Soldiers' Act, which is enforced when a soldier has "culpably violated their duty to serve" or "seriously endangered the military order or the reputation of the Bundeswehr".  Bartetzko's trial commenced in February 2002; he pleaded not guilty.  The trial was held under heavy security, with   police officers wearing   and armed with  .  The prosecution argued that the bombing was a "revenge attack" stemming from Bartetzko's "hatred of Serbs". On 10 May 2002, Bartetzko was convicted on all counts and sentenced to 23 years' imprisonment. 
 Bartetzko was incarcerated at the   in western Kosovo. He filed an appeal against the first-instance verdict, and on 12 November 2002, the Supreme Court of Kosovo reduced his sentence from 23 years to 20 years. In 2009, Bartetzko filed a request for interim measures with the Constitutional Court of Kosovo, alleging violations of his right to effective legal remedy, right to appeal, and human rights guaranteed by the  . In August 2010, the motion was rejected by the Constitutional Court of Kosovo. 
 Bartetzko was released on   in 2015. Upon his release, he relocated to   and found work providing legal services to a local media company, having studied law while imprisoned. In 2018, Bartetzko published a   called ' .' He is an active contributor to the question-and-answer website  , where he discusses his wartime experiences.
 He continues to maintain that he was not responsible for the bombing of the Yugoslav passport office and has accused UNMIK of framing him.  In 2022, Bartetzko went to   to provide logistical support for the Ukrainian   amidst the   of the country. 


URL: https://mk.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%98%D0%B0:%D0%9E%D0%B4%D1%80%D0%B5%D0%BA%D1%83%D0%B2%D0%B0%D1%9A%D0%B5_%D0%BE%D0%B4_%D0%BE%D0%B4%D0%B3%D0%BE%D0%B2%D0%BE%D1%80%D0%BD%D0%BE%D1%81%D1%82

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 Википедија е колаборативна онлајн енциклопедија со отворена содржина, т.е. таа е волонтерско здружение на индивидуалци и групи кои работат за да развијат заеднички извор на човеково знаење. Структурата на овој проект овозможува секој кој поседува интернет пристап да ја менува неговата содржина. Ве молиме бидете советувани дека не с  што ќе пронајдете овде е рецензирано од луѓе со стручноста која е потребна за да бидете снабдени со комплетни, точни, или проверливи информации.
 Не велиме дека нема да најдете вредни и прецизни информации на Википедија; поголем дел од времето ќе најдете. Сепак,   Содржината на било која статија може да биде скоро променета, вандализирана или променета од некој чие мислење не е во совпаѓање со состојбата на знаење во релевантните полиња.
 === Без формална рецензија ===
Ние работиме на начини на селекција и истакнување на веродостојни верзии на статии. Нашата активна заедница на уредувачи користи алатки како што се   и   за набљудување на новите содржини и промените на веќе постоечките. Сепак, Википедија нема формална рецензија; иако читателите можат да поправаат грешки и да се вклучат во обична  , тие немаат правна должност да го прават ова, што значи дека сета прочитана информација овде е без гаранција за исправност за било која цел или употреба.
 
 Ве молиме осигурајте да разберете дека информациите што можат да се најдат овде се обезбедени слободно, и дека не е создаден никаков договор помеѓу Вас и сопствениците на ова веб-место, сопствениците на опслужувачите на кои тој е хостиран, поединечните соработници на Википедија, администраторите на проектите, системските оператори или било кој кој е на каков било начин поврзан со овој проект или сродни проекти кој е подложен на вашите тврдења помеѓу нив директно. На Вас ви е овозможена ограничена лиценца да копирате било што од ова веб-место; тоа право не создава или имплицира никаква договорна или вондоговорна одговорност на страната на   или било кој од нејзините агенти, членови, организатори и други корисници.
 , што се однесува на вашата употреба или модификација на овие информација покрај   (CC-BY-SA) и   (GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL)); ниту пак било кој од Википедија е одговорен ако некој ги промени, уреди, модифицира, или отстрани информациите што може ќе ги постирате на   или било кој од нејзините поврзани проекти.
 Било кој од   (трговски марки, услужни марки, колективни марки), правата на дизајнот, личните права или слични права што се споменати, искористени или цитирани во статиите на енциклопедијата Википедија се сопственост на нивните соодветни сопственици. Нивната употреба овде не значи дека може да ги користите за каква било намена надвор од истата или сличната информативна употреба како што е наведено од страна на оригиналните автори на овие Википедија статии под CC-BY-SA и GFDL лиценционите шеми. Доколку не е поинаку нагласено, веб-местата Википедија и Викимедија не се одобрени или поврзани со сопствениците на било кои слични прави и поради тоа Википедија не може да дозволува какви било права на употреба на различно заштитени материјали.  
 Објавувањето на информација што може да се најде на   може да биде некакво прекршување на законите на земјата од каде што ја гледате оваа информација. Базат
Ако имате потреба  некој специфичен совет (на пример, медицински, правен или финансиски), Ве молиме побарајте професионалец кој е лиценциран или запознаен во таа област.


URL: https://lt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikipedija:Joki%C5%B3_garantij%C5%B3

Content: .


URL: https://lb.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: Editeur vun dësem Internetsite ass d' , déi der   kontaktéiere kënnt.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=User_talk:2601:1C2:1A00:2B5:E87D:59A4:C2B1:A08A&action=edit&redlink=1

Content:  are where people discuss how to make content on Wikipedia the best that it can be. Use this page to start a discussion about the edits made from this IP address. What you say here will be public for others to see. Many IP addresses change periodically, and are often shared by several people.


URL: https://lo.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%BA%A7%E0%BA%B4%E0%BA%81%E0%BA%B4%E0%BA%9E%E0%BA%B5%E0%BB%80%E0%BA%94%E0%BA%8D:%E0%BA%82%E0%BB%8D%E0%BB%89%E0%BA%9B%E0%BA%B0%E0%BA%95%E0%BA%B4%E0%BB%80%E0%BA%AA%E0%BA%94%E0%BA%84%E0%BA%A7%E0%BA%B2%E0%BA%A1%E0%BA%AE%E0%BA%B1%E0%BA%9A%E0%BA%9C%E0%BA%B4%E0%BA%94%E0%BA%8A%E0%BA%AD%E0%BA%9A

Content: ວິກິພີເດຍແມ່ນສາລານຸກົມເສລີທາງອິນເຕີເນັດ ຊຶ່ງເປັນຜົນຈາກການອາສາສະໝັກຂອງບຸກຄົນ ທີ່ຢາກພັດທະນາມັນໃຫ້ເປັນແຫຼ່ງຄວາມຮູ້ທົ່ວໄປຂອງມະນຸດ ທຸກ ໆ ຄົນສາມາດດັດແກ້ເນື້ອໃນຂອງວິກິພີເດຍໄດ້ ສະນັ້ນກະລຸນາຮັບຊາບວ່າເນື້ອໃນໃດ ໆ ກໍ່ຕາມໃນວິກິພີເດຍແຫ່ງນີ້ ອາດຈະບໍ່ໄດ້ຮັບການກວດກາໂດຍນັກວິຊາການຫຼືບຸກຄົນທີ່ມີຄວາມຮູ້ກ່ຽວກັບເລື່ອງດັ່ງກ່າວ ເພື່ອຮັບປະກັນຄວາມຊັດເຈນແລະຖືກຕ້ອງທຸກປະການ ແຕ່ອັນນີ້ກໍ່ບໍ່ໄດ້ໝາຍຄວາມວ່າ ຜູ້ໃຊ້ຈະບໍ່ສາມາດພົບຫາເນື້ອໃນທີ່ມີຄຸນຄ່າແລະຊັດເຈນຢູ່ວິກິພີເດຍໄດ້
 ວິກິພີເດຍມີຂໍ້ມູນທີ່ບໍ່ຊັດເຈນເຊິ່ງຈະບໍ່ພົບຢູ່ໃນສານຸກົມທຳມະດາ ຂອບເຂດຂອງເນື້ອໃນຂອງວິກິພີເດຍແມ່ນຂຶ້ນກັບຜົນປະໂຫຍດຂອງອາສາສະໝັກທີ່ປະກອບສ່ວນ ຜູ້ອ່ານບໍ່ຄວນຕັດສິນຄວາມສໍາຄັນຂອງຫົວຂໍ້ໂດຍຜູ້ຂຽນຂອງມັນຢູ່ໃນວິກິພີເດຍ ຫຼືສົມມຸດວ່າຫົວຂໍ້ແມ່ນສໍາຄັນ ພຽງແຕ່ເນື່ອງຈາກຖືກຂຽນກ່ຽວກັບວິກິພີເດຍ
 ຂໍ້ມູນທາງການແພດໃນບົດຄວາມຂອງວິກິພີເດຍ ເປັນພຽງຂໍ້ມູນຊ່ວຍສຳຫຼັບການສຶກສາເທົ່ານັ້ນ ແລະຈະບໍ່ສາມາດທຽບກັບຄຳແນະນຳຂອງແພດ ພະຍາບານ ຫຼືຜູ້ຊ່ຽວຊານໄດ້ ດັ່ງນັ້ນກະລຸນາຢ່າອ້າງອີງເນື້ອໃນຈາກວິກິພີເດຍໃນການປົວພະຍາດ
 ຂໍ້ມູນທາງກົດໝາຍໃນບົດຄວາມຂອງວິກິພີເດຍ ເປັນພຽງຂໍ້ມູນຊ່ວຍເຫຼືອທາງການສຶກສາເທົ່ານັ້ນ ບໍ່ແມ່ນຂໍ້ມູນທາງກົດໝາຍທີ່ສາມາດໃຊ້ອ້າງອີງໄດ້ໃນສານ ແລະວິກິພີເດຍກໍ່ບໍ່ແມ່ນທະນາຍທີ່ຈະໃຫ້ທ່ານເອົາເນື້້ອໃນໄປອ້າງອີງໃນທາງຕຸລາການໄດ້
 ຈົ່ງຈື່ໄວ້ວ່າຂໍ້ມູນໃດ ໆ ທີ່ທ່ານອາດພົບເຫັນຢູ່ໃນວິກິພີເດຍອາດຈະບໍ່ຖືກຕ້ອງ ເຮັດໃຫ້ເຂົ້າໃຈຜິດ ເປັນອັນຕະລາຍ ຜິດສິນລະທຳ ຫຼືຜິດກົດໝາຍ
 ຂໍ້ມູນບາງຢ່າງໃນວິກິພີເດຍອາດຈະສ້າງຄວາມສ່ຽງທີ່ບໍ່ສົມເຫດສົມຜົນຕໍ່ຜູ້ອ່ານທີ່ເລືອກທີ່ຈະອີງໃສ່ຫຼືນໍາໃຊ້ຂໍ້ມູນໃນກິດຈະກໍາຂອງເຂົາເຈົ້າ ຫຼືປະກອບສ່ວນເຂົ້າໃນການນໍາໃຊ້ຂໍ້ມູນດັ່ງກ່າວໂດຍບຸກຄົນທີ່ສາມ


URL: https://ku.wikipedia.org/wiki/W%C3%AEk%C3%AEpediya:Ferexetname

Content: Ev malpera ji   tê wêşandin, qedykirî li cem   di bin nimrê  . Weqfa Wikimedia di bi heqên heremê   di DYE da ye. "Serokî" vê weqfê di bin rûpelê   kane were dîtin. Niha ew kesa   e.
 Ji bo pirsan ya xastinên interview'an bi kesên (bikarhênerên) Wîkîpediyayê kurdî ra, hûn dikarin di rûpelê   înformasyonan ji xwe ra derxin û e-nameyan bişînin.


URL: https://lv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vikip%C4%93dija:Saist%C4%ABbu_atrunas

Content:  ir interneta enciklopēdija ar brīvu, pašu dalībnieku veidotu saturu. Šo saturu var izmainīt jebkurš, kam pieejams  . Vikipēdijas rakstus veido, papildina un uzrauga cilvēki, kas pārsvarā nav profesionāļi attiecīgajās jomās un dara to pilnīgi brīvprātīgi bez jebkādas atlīdzības. Kaut arī mēs cenšamies ievietotos tekstus kontrolēt un pārbaudīt, tomēr jums jāņem vērā, ka šeit atrodamā informācija var būt nepilnīga, nepareiza vai neprecīza, un neviens no Vikipēdijas autoriem nevar garantēt rakstu patiesumu vai jebkādā veidā būt atbildīgs par sekām, kādas radušās, pielietojot informāciju, kas atrodama rakstos vai tajos esošajās ārējās saitēs. Mūsu lielākais sasniegums ir   un  , tomēr pat tie var būt tikuši izmainīti īsi pirms jūs tos lasāt.
 


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Roland_Bartetzko&curid=55626984&diff=1220313082&oldid=1213365623

Content:  (born 1970) is a former German soldier and convicted terrorist who fought with the   in the   (1992–1995) and the   in the   (1998–1999).
 In 2001, Bartetzko orchestrated a    outside a Yugoslav government office in  , killing one   civilian, and injuring four others. After his   was found on the detonator, he was arrested and charged with  ,   and  , becoming the first Westerner to be indicted on these charges in post-war Kosovo.
 The following year, he was convicted on all counts by an international court under the supervision of the   (UNMIK), and sentenced to 23 years' imprisonment. Bartetzko's sentence was later commuted to 20 years' imprisonment. He was released on   in 2015. He has maintained his innocence and claims he was framed by UNMIK. He wrote a book in 2018.
 Bartetzko was born in the town of   near   in 1970.  He joined the   in 1987.  By the time he was dishonorably discharged from the Bundeswehr in 1992, he had reached the rank of   ( :  ). In 1992, he travelled to the   to fight in the  , where he joined the   (HVO).  
 "To be able to call myself a soldier, I thought I had to fight, otherwise, I could have joined a paintball club." Bartetzko was one of approximately 100 German citizens who volunteered to fight with the HVO, most of whom were  . Bartetzko has denied being a  .  He was assigned to the Ante "Bruno" Bušić Brigade, which fought the   (ARBiH) He also fought during the  . 
 Bartetzko left the HVO in April 1994, citing the "very cruel scenes, which could be described as atrocities," as he witnessed being committed by his fellow HVO fighters.  He subsequently volunteered to fight with the   and participated in   in the closing stages of the Bosnian War. Upon returning to Germany, Bartetzko was arrested for allegedly stealing a woman's handbag. Following the outbreak of the   in February 1998, Bartetzko travelled to  ,  . He subsequently crossed the Albanian–Yugoslav border into Kosovo and joined the   (KLA) as a volunteer. During his time with the KLA, he assumed the    , the eighth month of the  . 
 On 18 April 2001, a   exploded near the   in  , the headquarters of the Yugoslav passport office in Kosovo, killing one civilian and wounding four others, including a woman who was left with serious injuries.  Yugoslav government official Aleksandar Petrović was later identified as the man killed in the bombing. The device used in the attack was filled with metal fragments.  According to the   (UNMIK)   Andrea Angeli, it contained around 10 kilograms (22 lb) of explosive. "For the future of Kosovo it could not be a more tragic incident," UNMIK police spokesperson Derek Chappell stated. "This is an attack against everything that people trying to build this country are working for." 
 The crime scene was quickly secured by UNMIK police and     personnel. UNMIK and KFOR soon discovered the detonator that had been used in the attack and that Bartetzko's   were on it.  Bartetzko was arrested several days after the bombing.  He was charged with  ,   and  .  He was the first Westerner to be charged with murder in post-war Kosovo. 
 In 2001, Bartetzko was   from the Bundeswehr under Paragraph 55 (5) of the Soldiers' Act, which is enforced when a soldier has "culpably violated their duty to serve" or "seriously endangered the military order or the reputation of the Bundeswehr".  Bartetzko's trial commenced in February 2002; he pleaded not guilty.  The trial was held under heavy security, with   police officers wearing   and armed with  .  The prosecution argued that the bombing was a "revenge attack" stemming from Bartetzko's "hatred of Serbs". On 10 May 2002, Bartetzko was convicted on all counts and sentenced to 23 years' imprisonment. 
 Bartetzko was incarcerated at the   in western Kosovo. He filed an appeal against the first-instance verdict, and on 12 November 2002, the Supreme Court of Kosovo reduced his sentence from 23 years to 20 years. In 2009, Bartetzko filed a request for interim measures with the Constitutional Court of Kosovo, alleging violations of his right to effective legal remedy, right to appeal, and human rights guaranteed by the  . In August 2010, the motion was rejected by the Constitutional Court of Kosovo. 
 Bartetzko was released on   in 2015. Upon his release, he relocated to   and found work providing legal services to a local media company, having studied law while imprisoned. In 2018, Bartetzko published a   called ' .' He is an active contributor to the question-and-answer website  , where he discusses his wartime experiences.
 He continues to maintain that he was not responsible for the bombing of the Yugoslav passport office and has accused UNMIK of framing him.  In 2022, Bartetzko went to   to provide logistical support for the Ukrainian   amidst the   of the country. 


URL: https://ky.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8%D1%8F:%D0%96%D0%BE%D0%BE%D0%BF%D0%BA%D0%B5%D1%80%D1%87%D0%B8%D0%BB%D0%B8%D0%BA%D1%82%D0%B5%D0%BD_%D0%B1%D0%B0%D1%88_%D1%82%D0%B0%D1%80%D1%82%D1%83%D1%83

Content: Бирок, Википедиядан пайдалуу жана так маалымат табылбайт деп айтканга болбойт, тескерисинче, басымдуу бөлүгү андай маалымат. Ага карабастан,  . Кандай гана макала болбосун, билимдин кандайдыр бир жаатындагы азыркы учурдагы кеңири таанылган жоболорун тааныбастык көз караштагы адам тарабынан жакында эле бурмаланып бойдон калышы мүмкүн.
 Жигердүү түзөтүүчүлөрүбүз Википедияда болгон бардык өзгөртүүлөргө « » жана « » сыяктуу куралдарды колдонуп көз салып турушат. Бул жумуш ыктыярдуу аткарылганына байланыштуу, Википедиядагы кандай гана маалыматтын, кандайдыр бир максатка ылайыктуулугуна же колдонулушуна эч кандай кепилдик берилбейт. Жада калса, расмий эмес эксперттик баалоодон өтүп, « » макамына ээ макалалар сиз окуурдун алдында чар-жайыт түзөтүлгөн болушу мүмкүн.
 
 Бул жердеги маалымат   ушул сайттын ээсинин же колдонуучуларынын, Википедия жайгаша турган серверлердин ээлеринин, Википедиянын айрым түзөтүүчүлөрүнүн, долбоордун администраторлорунун, тутумдук администраторлордун жана бул же тектеш долбоорлорго катышы бар, дооматыңыздын жоопкери болуп калышы мүмкүн адамдардын ортосунда  . Ушул сайттагы нерселерди көчүрүү укугу чектелет. Бул укук, Википедиянын бир дагы бөлүгү же анын агенттери, мүчөлөрү, уюштуруучулары же башка колдонуучулары үчүн эч кандай жарандык же башка түрдөгү жоопкерчиликти жаратпайт.
 Маалыматты Creative Commons Attribution/Share-Alike (CC-BY-SA) жана GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL) лицензиялары тышкары пайдалануу же өзгөртүү боюнча  . Ошондой эле, Википедияда же байланыштуу долбоорлордо жайгаштырган маалыматыңыздын кандай болбосун өзгөрүшү же жок кылынышы үчүн эч ким жооп бербейт.
 Википедиянын макалаларында айтылып кеткен, колдонулган же үзүндү катары келтирилген соода белгилери, тейлөө жана жамааттык белгилер, дизайнга болгон укук сыяктуу укуктардын баары алардын укук ээлерине таандык. Аларды бул жерде колдонгонуңуз менен, CC-BY-SA жана GFDL лицензияларынын схемасы боюнча Википедия макалаларынын авторлору ойлонуштурган же маалымат алуу максаттан башка максатта колдоно албайсыз. Эгерде башкача шартталбаса, Википедиянын жана Викимедиа фондунун башка сайттарынын мындай укук ээлери менен эч кандай байланышы жок болгондуктан, Википедия автордук укук менен корголгон материалдарды колдонуу укугун тескей албайт. Ушул жана сыяктуу материалдарды өз жоопкерчилигиңиз менен колдоносуз.
 Википедия, адамды аныктоого мүмкүнчүлүк берген материалдарды камтыйт. Ал адамдардын арасында тирүү же жакында көзү өтүп кеткендер бар болушу мүмкүн. Айрым юрисдикцияларда, автордук укук менен корголуп же корголбогонуна карабастан, тирүү же жакында көзү өткөн адамдардын элесин колдонуу инсандын укуктарын жөнгө салган мыйзамдар менен чектелет. Мындай материалдарды колдонуудан мурун, аларды колдоно турган жагдайларда тийиштүү мыйзамдарга ылайык колдонууга болот же болбойт экенин билип алыңыз.  .
 Википедияда жайгашкан маалыматты жайылтуу, сиз турган мамлекеттин мыйзамдарын бузушу мүмкүн. Википедиянын маалымат базасы Америка Кошмо Штаттарында жайгашкан серверлерде сакталып, ошол мамлекеттин жергиликтүү жана федералдык мыйзамдарында каралган чаралар менен корголот. Өлкөңүздүн мыйзамдары мындай кеп кылууга же жайылтууга жол бербеши мүмкүн. Википедия кандайдыр бир мыйзам бузулууларды үндөбөйт жана ушул сайтка шилтемелерди берилгени же ушул сайттагы маалыматты колдонулуушу же жайылтылышы менен мыйзамдардын бузулганы үчүн жооп бере албайт.


URL: https://kw.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content: po vershyon yn neb tavos arall.


URL: https://ks.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%88%D9%90%DA%A9%DB%8C%D9%96%D9%BE%DB%8C%D9%96%DA%88%DB%8C%D8%A7:%D8%B9%D9%8E%D9%88%D9%B2%D9%85%DB%8C_%D8%A7%D9%90%D8%B8%DB%81%D8%A7%D8%B1%D9%90_%D9%84%D8%A7_%D8%AA%D9%88%D9%84%D9%8F%D9%82%DB%8C

Content: 
 وِکیٖپیٖڈیا چھُ اَکھ آنلایِن رَضاکار، آزاد انسایكلوپیڈیا یَتھ مَنٛز ہَر کانٛہہ ہیٚکہِ اؠڈِٹ کٔرِتھ۔ وِکیٖپیٖڈیاہَس چھُ کانٛہہ تہِ ہیٚکَن تَبدیلی أنِتھ۔ یہِ گَژھِ یاد تھاوُن زِ پرٛتھ کانٛہہ مَضموٗن چھُنہٕ مٲہِر گَشتہٕ کٔرِتھ آسان تہٕ یِمَن مَضموٗنَن مَنٛز ہیٚکہِ غَلَط مَعلوٗمات آسِتھ۔
 اَمیُٛک مَطلَب چھُنہٕ زِ وِکیٖپیٖڈیاہَس پؠٹھ چھُ خألی غلط مولوٗماتھ آسان بٔلکہِ چھُ وِکیٖپیٖڈیاہَس پؠٹھ واریاہ اَصٕل مولوٗماتھ تہِ دَسیاب۔ کُنہِ تہِ مَضموٗنُک مَواد ہیٚکہِ بَدلاونہٕ آمُت، خَراب کَرنہٕ 
یا آمُت۔


URL: https://sw.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Kanusho_kwa_jumla

Content: Tango (Cucumis sativus) ni mimea iliyopandwa sana katika familia ya chumvi, Cucurbitaceae. Ni mzabibu unaozaa ambayo huzaa matunda mazuri ambayo hutumiwa kama mboga. Kuna aina tatu kuu za tango: kupunja, pickling, na mbegu. Ndani ya aina hizi, mbegu kadhaa zimeundwa. Nchini Amerika ya Kaskazini, neno "tango la mwitu" linamaanisha mimea katika kijiografia Echinocystis na Marah, lakini haya hayahusiana. Tango ni asili kutoka Asia ya Kusini, lakini sasa inakua katika mabara mengi. Aina nyingi za tango zinatumiwa kwenye soko la kimataifa.
 Yaliyomo
 Maelezo
 Tango ni mizabibu ya mizabibu ambayo ni mizizi katika ardhi na inakua mazao au vifungo vingine vya kuunga mkono, kufunika karibu na sambamba na tete nyembamba, za kutunga. Kiwanda kinaweza pia kuimarisha katikati ya kivuli na kitapungua chini ikiwa haina mkono. Mzabibu una majani makubwa yanayotengeneza mamba juu ya matunda. Matunda ya mboga ya kawaida ya tango ni takriban cylindrical, lakini hutolewa na mwisho wa tapered, na inaweza kuwa kubwa kama sentimita 60 (24 in) mrefu na sentimita 10 (3.9 in) mduara. [Citation] Inahitajika kuzungumza, tango ni Iliyowekwa kama pepo, aina ya berry ya mimea yenye punda ngumu ya nje na hakuna mgawanyiko wa ndani. Mengi kama nyanya na boga, mara nyingi huelewa, hutayarishwa na kuliwa kama mboga. Matunda ya tango mara nyingi zaidi ya 90% ya maji. [Citation inahitajika]
Maua na uchafuzi
 Mbegu chache za tango ni sehemu ya sherehe, maua huunda matunda yasiyo na mbegu bila uchafuzi. Uchafuzi wa mashamba haya huharibika ubora. Nchini Marekani, hizi hupandwa kwa kawaida katika maeneo ya kijani, ambapo nyuki hutolewa. Katika Ulaya, wao ni mzima nje katika mikoa fulani, na nyuki hutolewa kutoka maeneo haya.
 Magogo mengi ya tango, hata hivyo, yana mimea na yanahitaji kupamba rangi. Maelfu ya mizinga ya nyuki za nyuki hutolewa kila mwaka kwa mashamba ya tango kabla ya kupasuka kwa kusudi hili. Matango pia yanaweza kupikwa na blubebees na aina nyingine za nyuki. Matango mengi ambayo yanahitaji kupamba rangi ni ya kutofautiana, hivyo poleni kutoka kwenye mmea tofauti inahitajika kuunda mbegu na matunda. [1] Kuna baadhi ya cultivars zinazohusika na zinazohusiana na kilimo cha 'Lemon'. [1] Dalili za uchafuzi wa kutosha ni pamoja na mimba ya matunda na matunda mabaya. Maua ya rangi ya mviringo yanaweza kuzalisha matunda ambayo ni ya kijani na kuendeleza kawaida karibu na mwisho wa shina, lakini ni rangi ya njano na imeharibika katika mwisho wa maua.
 Kilimo cha jadi huzalisha maua ya kiume kwanza, kisha kike, katika idadi sawa. Magugu yaliyo karibu zaidi ya gynoecious huzalisha maua yote ya kike. Wanaweza kuwa na mimea ya pollenizer iliyoingizwa, na idadi ya nyuki kwa eneo la kitengo imeongezeka, lakini mabadiliko ya joto hushawishi maua ya kiume hata kwenye mimea hii, ambayo inaweza kuwa ya kutosha kwa ajili ya kupitisha mishipa kutokea. [1]
Maelezo ya Genomic ID ya genome ya NCBI 1639
Ploidy diploid
Ukubwa wa aina ya 323.99 Mb
Mitochondrion ya chombo iliyopangwa
Ukubwa wa viungo 244.82 Mb
Mwaka wa kukamilisha 2011
Genome
 Mnamo mwaka 2009, timu ya watafiti ya kimataifa ilitangaza kwamba walikuwa wametenganisha genome ya tango. [2]
Uzalishaji
Wazalishaji wa tano juu ya tango mwaka 2013
Uzalishaji wa Nchi, mamilioni ya tani
China 54.3
Uturuki 1.8
Iran 1.6
Urusi 1.1
Ukraine 1.0
Dunia 71,365,573
Chanzo: Shirika la Chakula na Kilimo (FAOSTAT) [3]
 Kulingana na Shirika la Chakula na Kilimo la Umoja wa Mataifa kwa tango na uzalishaji wa gherkin mwaka 2013, China ilizalisha 76% ya pato la kimataifa, ikifuatiwa na Uturuki, Iran, Urusi na Ukraine (meza).
Lishe
Tango, na peel, ghafi Thamani ya lishe kwa 100 g (3.5 oz)
Nishati 65 kJ (kcal 16)
Karodi
 3.63 g
Sugars 1.67
Fiber ya vyakula 0.5 g
Mafuta
 0.11 g
Protini
 0.65 g
Vitamini
Thiamine (B1)
(2%)
0.027 mg
Riboflavin (B2)
(3%)
0.033 mg
Niacin (B3)
(1%)
0.098 mg
Pantothenic asidi (B5)
(5%)
0.259 mg
Vitamini B6
(3%)
0.04 mg
Folate (B9)
(2%)
7 μg
Vitamini C
(3%)
2.8 mg
Vitamini K
(16%)
16.4 μg
Madini
Calcium 0.65 g
Vitamini
Thiamine (B1)
(2%)
0.027 mg
Riboflavin (B2)
(3%)
0.033 mg
Niacin (B3)
(1%)
0.098 mg
Pantothenic asidi (B5)
(5%)
0.259 mg
Vitamini B6
(3%)
0.04 mg
Folate (B9)
(2%)
7 μg
Vitamini C
(3%)
2.8 mg
Vitamini K
(16%)
16.4 μg
Madini
Calcium
(2%)
16 mg
Iron
(2%)
0.28 mg
Magnésiamu
(4%)
13 mg
Manganese
(4%)
0.079 mg
Phosphorus
(3%)
24 mg
Potasiamu
(3%)
147 mg
Sodiamu
(0%)
2 mg
Zinc
(2%)
0.2 mg
Wilaya wengine
Maji 95.23 g
Fluoride 1.3 μg
Unganisha kuingia kwa database ya USDA
 Asilimia ni karibu takriban kutumia mapendekezo ya Marekani kwa watu wazima.
 Katika huduma ya gramu 100, tango ghafi (na peel) ni maji ya 95%, hutoa kilojouli 67 (kilocalories 16) na hutoa maudhui ya chini ya virutubisho muhimu, kwa sababu inaonekana tu kwa vitamini K kwa asilimia 16 ya Thamani ya Kila siku (meza ).
Aina
Angalia pia: Orodha ya aina ya tango
 Katika kilimo cha kawaida, matango yanawekwa katika makundi matatu makuu ya kulima: "kupamba", "pickling", na "bila".
Kutafuta
Matango ya kukata
 Matango yaliyopandwa kula chakula huitwa matango ya slicing. Aina kuu za slicers hupandwa kwenye mizabibu na majani makubwa ambayo hutoa shading. [4] Wao hutumiwa hasa katika fomu isiyo ya rangi ya kijani, kwani fomu ya njano iliyoiva huwa kawaida na machungu. Vipande vilivyopandwa kwa kibiashara kwa soko la Amerika ya Kaskazini kwa kawaida ni zaidi, laini, sare zaidi katika rangi, na kuwa na ngozi kali zaidi. Slicers katika nchi nyingine ni ndogo na huwa na ngozi nyembamba, zaidi ya maridadi. Tango ndogo za kukata pia zinaweza kuchujwa.
Pickling
Matango ya Pickling
Makala kuu: Tango za Pickled
 Matango yanaweza kuchujwa kwa ladha na maisha zaidi ya rafu. Ingawa tango lolote linaweza kuchujwa, vifuniko vya biashara hufanywa kutoka kwa matango husingiwa kwa uwiano wa uwiano wa urefu na upepo na ukosefu wa voids katika mwili. Matango hayo yaliyotajwa kwa pickling, inayoitwa picklers, kukua hadi 7 hadi 10 cm (3 hadi 4 in) kwa muda mrefu na 2.5 cm (1 in) pana. Ikilinganishwa na slicers, picklers huwa na muda mfupi, mzito, chini ya umbo mara kwa mara, na huwa na ngozi nyekundu yenye vidogo vidogo vyenye nyeupe au nyeusi. Hazijawahi kushikamana. Rangi inaweza kutofautiana na rangi ya njano au rangi ya kijani. Matango ya Pickling wakati mwingine huuzwa safi kama matango ya "Kirby" au "Uhuru". Matango yaliyochapwa yanachapishwa kwenye brine au mchanganyiko wa siki na brine, ingawa si siki peke yake, mara kwa mara pamoja na viungo mbalimbali. Matango yaliyochaguliwa huitwa "pickles" nchini Marekani au "gherkins" au "mviringo" huko Uingereza, jina la mwisho lililokuwa la kawaida zaidi kaskazini mwa Uingereza na London, ambako linamaanisha matango makubwa ya siki iliyokatwa kwa kawaida katika samaki Na maduka ya chip.
Burupu
Sio kuchanganyikiwa na Mbegu za Burpe.
Tango la Isfahan lenye burpless awali kutoka Iran
 Tango zisizopigwa na matunda ni nzuri na zina ngozi nyembamba kuliko aina nyingine za tango, na zinajulikana kuwa rahisi kuponda na kuwa na ladha nzuri. Wanaweza kukua kwa muda mrefu kama meta mbili (0.61 m). Wao ni karibu bila mbegu, na wana ngozi nyeti. Mara nyingi hupandwa katika vitalu vya kijani, matango haya ya parthenocarpic mara nyingi hupatikana katika masoko ya mboga, hupunguka kwa plastiki. Wakati mwingine huchangiwa kama wasio na mbegu au wasio na burudani, kwa sababu mbegu na ngozi ya aina nyingine za matango zinasemekana kuwapa watu gesi. [5]
 Aina nyingine za cultivar zinauzwa kibiashara:
'Dosakai' ni turu, njano, tango kuonekana kwenye soko huko Guntur, India
 Rom na ladha
 Watu wengi huripoti harufu nzuri, karibu na maji ya harufu ya melon na ladha ya matango kutokana na misombo inayoitwa (E, Z) -nona-2,6-dienal, (Z) -2-nonenal na (E) -2-nonenal. [9] Tamu ya uchungu kidogo ya matango hutokea kwa cucurbitacins. [10]
Historia ya kilimo
 Matango yaliyotokea India, ambapo aina nyingi nyingi zimezingatiwa, [11] [12] [13] kutoka Cucumis hystrix. [11] [14] Imekuwa ikipandwa kwa angalau miaka 3,000, na labda ililetwa kwa sehemu nyingine za Ulaya na Wagiriki au Warumi. Kumbukumbu za kilimo cha tango huonekana nchini Ufaransa katika karne ya 9, England katika karne ya 14, na katika Amerika Kaskazini na katikati ya karne ya 16.
Kilimo cha awali
Tango ya njano ya Hindi
 Tango zimeorodheshwa kati ya vyakula vya Uri ya zamani, na hadithi ya Gilgamesh inaelezea watu wanaokula matango. [Vyanzo vingine] Vyanzo vingine [nani?] Pia wanasema kuwa ilitolewa katika kale ya Thrace, na kwa hakika ni sehemu ya vyakula vya kisasa nchini Bulgaria Na Uturuki, sehemu ambazo hufanya hali hiyo ya kale. Matango yanasemwa katika Biblia kama moja ya vyakula ambavyo Waisraeli walipokuliwa huko Misri. [15] Kutoka India, imeenea kwa Ugiriki (ambako ilikuwa inaitwa "σίκυον", síkyon) na Italia (ambapo Warumi walipenda sana mazao), na baadaye nchini China.
 Robert Daniel, akizungumza juu ya nusu ya pili ya karne ya tatu AD, ameamua kutambua neno lisilojulikana, ολγιττα, na al-qitta ya Kiarabu, neno la kawaida kwa tango. [16]
 Kulingana na Pliny Mzee (The Natural History, Kitabu XIX, Sura ya 23), Wagiriki wa kale walikua matango, na kulikuwa na aina tofauti katika Italia, Afrika, na Moesia.
Dola ya Kirumi
 Kulingana na Pliny, Mfalme Tiberius alikuwa na tango kwenye meza yake kila siku wakati wa majira ya joto na baridi. Warumi iliripotiwa kutumika mbinu za bandia (sawa na mfumo wa chafu) za kuongezeka kuwa na inapatikana kwa meza yake kila siku ya mwaka. "Kwa hakika, hakuwa na bila ya hayo, kwa kuwa alikuwa ameinua vitanda vilivyofanywa kwa muafaka juu ya magurudumu, kwa njia ambayo matango yalihamia na kufunuliwa kwa joto kamili la jua, wakati, wakati wa baridi, waliondolewa, na kuwekwa chini ya Ulinzi wa frames glazed na 'mirrorstone'. "[17] 'Mirrorstone' ni tafsiri halisi ya Pliny's 'lapis specularis', inaaminika kuwa ni mica ya karatasi.
 Inasema, pia walikulima katika nyumba za tango ambazo zimefunikwa na kitambaa cha mafuta kilichojulikana kama "specularia". [18]
 Pliny Mzee anaelezea matunda ya Kiitaliano kama mdogo sana, labda kama gherkin, akielezea kama tango ya mwitu mno mdogo kuliko yale yaliyopandwa. Pliny pia anaelezea maandalizi ya dawa inayojulikana kama elaterium, ingawa baadhi ya wasomi [ambao?] Wanaamini alikuwa akimaanisha Ecballium elaterium, inayojulikana katika nyakati za awali za Linnean kama "Cucumis silvestris" au "Cucumis asininus" ("tango za mwitu" au " Tango tunda "), aina tofauti na matango ya kawaida. [19] Pliny pia anaandika juu ya aina nyingine kadhaa ya tango, ikiwa ni pamoja na tango zilizolima, [20] na tiba kutoka kwa aina tofauti (9 kutoka kwa kulimwa, 5 kutoka "anguine", na 26 kutoka "mwitu"). Warumi wanasemekana kuwa wametumia matango ya kutibu maumivu ya kupigwa, macho mabaya, na kutisha panya. Wanawake wanaotamani kwa watoto walivaa viuno vyao. Walipelekwa pia na wajukuu, na kutupwa mbali wakati mtoto alizaliwa


URL: https://ht.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedya:Av%C3%A8tisman_jeneral

Content: Wikipedya se yon sit entènèt ki ofri yon ansiklopedi kolaboratif ki gen kontni anba "lisans gratis". Wikipedya alimante ak yon asosyasyon moun volontè ak gwoup k ap travay ki vle bati ansanm yon resous konplè nan konesans moun. Estrikti pwojè sa a menm  pèmèt nenpòt moun ki gen yon koneksyon entènèt modifye kontni li yo. Se konsa, ou dwe konnen ke se pa tout bagay isit la ke moun ki gen ekspètiz ladan l analize pou ba ou enfòmasyon konplè, egzat ak serye.
 Sa pa vle di tou ke ou pa pral jwenn enfòmasyon egzat ak valab sou Wikipedya. Kèk tan w ap jwenn. Sepandan, Wikipedya pa garanti validite, presizyon, konplè oswa enpòtans enfòmasyon ki sou sit li a. Kontni chak atik gen dwa te modifye, vandalize oswa chanje pa yon moun ki gen opinyon ki pa koresponn ak eta konesans nan domèn konsène yo, oswa ak netralite ki nesesè.
 Kominote ki asosye ak Wikipedya toujou ap chèche chwazi epi pote vèsyon ki fyab nan atik yo. Pou fè sa, li sèvi ak zouti tankou  , paj swiv ak   pou kontwole evolisyon kontni aktyèl la ak chanjman li yo. Sepandan, Wikipedya pa revize kanmarad yo. Nenpòt lektè ka korije erè oswa patisipe nan yon  , men lektè sa yo pa gen okenn obligasyon legal pou yo fè sa, e se poutèt sa tout enfòmasyon ki isit yo pa garanti okenn fyabilite pou okenn rezon oswa itilizasyon. Menm atik ki te verifye pa yon revizyon parèy enfòmèl oswa otorize atravè yon pwosesis ki mennen nan yon  , Lè sa a, yo te kapab modifye yon fason ki pa apwopriye jis anvan ou te edite yo. Se poutèt sa li rekòmande pou toujou kenbe yon   atik yo.
 Kontni ki pwopoze la yo gratis, san okenn obligasyon ni isit ni  lòtbò, epi pa gen okenn kalite akò oswa kontra ki etabli ant ou menm ak pwopriyetè yo oswa itilizatè yo sou sit sa a, mèt sèvè k ap jere yo a, kontribitè endividyèl Wikipedya, nenpòt ki moun. administratè pwojè yo, biwokrat yo, devlopè yo, administratè sistèm yo, oswa nenpòt lòt moun ki "konekte nenpòt fason" ak pwojè sa a oswa nenpòt lòt ti pwojè moun ki ka sijè a plent dirèk ou yo.
 Ou gen yon lisans limite pou kopye tout oswa yon pati nan kontni sit sa a; sa pa kreye oswa vle di okenn responsablite kontra oswa ekstra-kontra ak Wikipedya oswa nenpòt nan ajan li yo, manm, òganizatè, patisipan yo, oswa lòt itilizatè.
Pa gen   konsènan itilizasyon oswa modifikasyon enfòmasyon sa yo pi lwen pase Lisans Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported  . Menm jan an tou, si yon moun ta chanje, modifye, modifye oswa efase nenpòt enfòmasyon ou ta mete sou Wikipedya oswa nenpòt nan pwojè ki gen rapò ak li yo, "pa gen moun ki responsab sou Wikipedya sèlman moun ki fè chanjman yo.
 Mak komèsyal, mak sèvis, mak kolektif, dwa konsepsyon, dwa pèsonalite oswa dwa menm ki sanble jan yo mansyone yo, itilize oswa site nan atik Wikipedya yo se e yo rete zafè pwopriyetè respektif yo. Itilizasyon yo isit la pa vle di ke ou ta ka sèvi ak yo pou nenpòt lòt bagay ke enfòmasyon (oswa rezon ki sanble) jan otè orijinal yo nan atik Wikipedya sa yo te vle di anba Lisans Creative Commons BY-SA-3.0. Sòf si yo espesifye otreman, Wikimedya ak sit Wikimedya yo pa andose oswa afilye ak okenn nan moun ki gen dwa yo, e kòm sa yo, yo pa kapab bay Wikipedya okenn lisans pou itilize nenpòt materyèl ki pwoteje pa dwa sa yo. Itilizasyon ou menm dwa sa yo, oswa lòt pwopriyete entanjib sa yo, se sèlman sou pwòp risk ou.
 Piblikasyon enfòmasyon ki sou Wikipedya ka pa konfòme ak lwa aplikab nan peyi kote w ap gade enfòmasyon sa a. Baz done Wikipedya a estoke sou yon sèvè nan Eta   nan  , epi operasyon li an konfòm ak lwa lokal ak federal Ozetazini. Wikipedya pa adrese okenn peyi an patikilye. Lwa ki aplikab nan peyi w gen dwa pa pèmèt pwoteksyon sa a, oswa yo ka pa pèmèt piblikasyon oswa distribisyon diskou sa a. Wikipedya pa ankouraje okenn vyolasyon lwa a epi yo pa kapab responsab okenn vyolasyon nenpòt lwa, kit se paske ou gen rapò ak domèn sa a oswa kit ou itlize, repwodui oswa repibliye enfòmasyon ki nan sit sa a.
 Si w bezwen konsèy espesifik (egzanp medikal, legal, finansye oswa jesyon risk), tanpri konsilte yon pwofesyonèl ki konpetan oswa ki konnen ki gen konesans nan domèn sa a.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Roland_Bartetzko&curid=55626984&action=history

Content: For any version listed below, click on its date to view it. For more help, see   and  .   from current version,   from preceding version,  ,  ,  


URL: https://he.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D7%95%D7%99%D7%A7%D7%99%D7%A4%D7%93%D7%99%D7%94:%D7%94%D7%91%D7%94%D7%A8%D7%95%D7%AA_%D7%9E%D7%A9%D7%A4%D7%98%D7%99%D7%95%D7%AA

Content: להלן מספר הבהרות שחשוב לקחת לתשומת לב בעת השימוש ב . רשות העיון ב  מותנית בידיעתך את התנאים הללו ובהסכמתך להם.
 נודה לך אם תקדיש מזמנך לשם קריאת דף זה, ואנו מקווים שתיהנה מהחוויה שמעניקה לך  .
 אנא ודא שאתה מבין כי המידע המסופק כאן מובא בצורה חופשית ובחינם, ולא נערך כל הסכם או חוזה בינך לבין הבעלים או המשתמשים של אתר זה, בעלי השרתים שבהם מאוחסנת האנציקלופדיה, התורמים הפרטיים לוויקיפדיה, כל מנהל של הפרויקטים, טכנאים או כל אדם אחר שקשור בכל דרך לפרויקט הזה או לפרויקטים אחרים החשופים לטענותיך נגדם באופן ישיר. מוענק לך   להעתיק מתוך אתר זה טקסט, וכן תמונות אשר צוין עליהן שהן להפצה חופשית (בניגוד לתמונות הנמצאות באתר על פי כללי ה  ותמונות אחרות מוגבלות רישיון); רישיון זה לא יוצר או מרמז לכל אחריות המעוגנת בחוזה או בתוספת לו בשום חלק של   או של סוכניה, חבריה, יזמיה או כל משתמש אחר.
 
 
 המידע הזה מובא לך בחינם ו  כל הסכם או הבנה בינך לבין   בנוגע לשימוש שלך או כל שינוי שלך במידע זה מעבר לרישיון של   ו ; כמו כן, אף אחד ב  אינו אחראי לגבי כל שינוי, עריכה, הוספה או הסרה של כל מידע, שאתה עלול לכתוב ב  או בכל פרויקט אחר הנקשר בה.
 
 
 
 ויקיפדיה נערכת על ידי הציבור הרחב של משתמשי האינטרנט ולכן תיתכנה השחתות הן של מלל והן של תמונות. אין ויקיפדיה אחראית להשחתות אלה, ונעשה כל מאמץ על מנת לתקנן.
 באופן עקרוני, ויקיפדיה מאפשרת העלאת תמונות או כתיבת תוכן אשר אינו מפר את כלליה ואת חוקי המדינה; כך מאופשרת העלאת כל תוכן מקורי בעל ערך אנציקלופדי, אשר ניתן לאשש אותו ואשר אינו מהווה הפרה של זכויות יוצרים ומבצעים. הפרות של כלל זה הן השחתה, וויקיפדיה עושה כל מאמץ למנוע אותן.
 יש לזכור כי ויקיפדיה היא גוף התנדבותי, וככזה, ייתכן שייארך זמן מה בטרם תתוקן ההשחתה. אין ויקיפדיה אחראית לכל נזק שייגרם בפרק זמן זה.
 ויקיפדיה היא אנציקלופדיה צעירה אשר נמצאת עדיין בהתהוותה, ולכן ייתכנו בערכים שגיאות, נקיטות עמדה, סתירות, או אי התאמות עם הכללים לעיל.
 מהיותה של ויקיפדיה התנדבותית, אין היא אחראית לכל נזק שייגרם בשל הסתמכות על הערכים, ובמידה ומתגלה הפרה של הכללים, תעשה כל מאמץ לתקן את הערך.
  היא   בעלת תוכן פתוח ומקוון; מיזם התנדבותי של קבוצות ויחידים, השוקדים לפיתוח מאגר משותף של הידע האנושי. המבנה שלה מאפשר לכל פרט בעל גישה ל  ול  ה-  לערוך את התוכן הנמצא בה.
 עם כל הרצון הטוב של הו , הם עשויים לטעות. אנא קחו בחשבון שהמידע המופיע כאן, לא בהכרח נכתב או נבדק על ידי מומחים בתחומם, בעלי הידע הנדרש כדי להעניק לך מידע מושלם, מדויק או אמין לגבי כל נושא אליו מתייחסים הערכים ב .
 נחטא לאמת אם נאמר, שלא תוכל למצוא הרבה מידע בעל ערך ומדויק ב , אך למרות זאת עליך לזכור, ש , מטבעה,   להתחייב לתקפות ונכונות המידע המובא בה. המידע עשוי להיערך, להשתנות, ואף להינזק על ידי מי שהדעה שלו לא תואמת לידע המקובל בתחום מסוים, שאתה מתעניין ללמוד אודותיו.
 אנחנו מחפשים דרכים כדי לבחור ולאשר גרסאות יותר אמינות של ערכים, אבל עדיין ללא כל אחריות.
 
 
 ראו בהמשך הבהרות ספציפיות לגבי תחומי הרפואה והמשפט.
 ויקיפדיה כוללת נושאים רפואיים רבים; למרות זאת,   שהמידע בהם נכון. אין שום ביטחון שכל משפט בערך הנוגע בנושאים רפואיים הינו אמת, נכון או מדויק. אפילו אם נקבעת עובדה רפואית נכונה, ייתכן שהיא לא תהיה מתאימה לגביך או לגבי הסימפטומים שלך.
 המידע הרפואי אותו נותנת   הוא, במקרה הטוב, בעל אופן כללי ואינו יכול להוות תחליף לעצת  , כלומר, רופא מורשה, אחות, רוקח או כל אדם אחר מסוג זה.   אינה רופא.
 אף אחד מהתורמים, מפעילי מערכת, מפתחים או נותני החסות של ויקיפדיה או אף אחד אחר הקשור בדרך כלשהי לוויקיפדיה אינו יכול לקחת אחריות על התוצאות או השלכות של כל ניסיון להשתמש או לאמץ משהו מן האינפורמציה או הדיס־אינפורמציה המוצגים באתר זה.
 
 מובן שאתם מוזמנים לתרום לערכים ב  או   ואתם יכולים לעשות שימוש בכל חומר שתמצאו כאן תחת   ו .
 ויקיפדיה מכילה ערכים בנושאים משפטיים רבים, אולם מאחר שמדובר באנציקלופדיה חופשית, ייתכנו אי דיוקים. אין להסתמך על ערכים אלה כאל מידע משפטי מדויק.
ייתכנו שינויים בדין החל ממדינה למדינה, וכן ייתכנו שינויים בחקיקה ובפסיקה של כל מדינה ומדינה. ערכים יכולים להיות מבוססים על המצב המשפטי ששרר בעת הכנתם, אולם עובדה מסוימת, תקדים חדש, או הלך רוח שונה בבתי המשפט, עשויים לשנות את המצב, ואף להפוך אותו לחלוטין.
 המידע המצוי בוויקיפדיה הוא מידע כללי, ואין בו כדי להחליף מידע הניתן על ידי בעל מקצוע. על המעוניינים בייעוץ משפטי פרטני לפנות לעורך דין העוסק בתחום, ואין ויקיפדיה אחראית לכל נזק או תוצאה שתיגרם בעקבות הסתמכות על המידע המופיע בה.
 כל התוכן המצוי בוויקיפדיה אינו מהווה ייעוץ משפטי כהגדרתו בחוק, ואינו מתיימר להיות ייעוץ כזה.
 אנא נקוט בכל האמצעים הדרושים כדי לוודא, שכל מידע, שאתה מקבל מ  נכון ומאומת.
 אם יש הצעות כלשהן בנוגע לפעילויות מסוכנות, בלתי-חוקיות או לא מוסריות, זכור שכולם יכולים לכתוב מידע זה ב , והם עשויים להיות לא מתאימים בכדי לספק עבורך את המידע, שנודע לך לגביו צורך באמצעי זהירות הולמים, או בצעדים שבהם אתה יכול לנקוט כדי למנוע פציעה, נזק גופני או כל נזק אחר לעצמך, ברכוש או מוניטין.
 אנא הייה מודע לכך שכל מידע שאתה עשוי למצוא בוויקיפדיה עלול להיות לא מדויק, מטעה, מסוכן או בלתי חוקי.
 חובה לבדוק ולאמת כל פרט מידע הנמצא בוויקיפדיה, והאחריות בגין שימוש במידע ותוצאותיו מוטלת כולה על הקורא ועליו בלבד, לכן, האימות העצמאי שלך מומלץ ביותר.
 אם אתה זקוק לייעוץ ספציפי (למשל, רפואי, משפטי, ניהול סיכונים) אנא היוועץ במומחה, שהוא בעל רישיון או בעל ידע בתחום המבוקש.
 אנא שים לב, שהמידע הנמצא כאן עשוי לעבור על חוקיה של המדינה או של תחום השיפוט שבו אתה נמצא בעודך צופה במידע זה.   לא מעודדת עבירה על שום חוק שהוא, אבל מאחר שמידע זה מאוחסן על שרת במדינת   שב , הוא מתוחזק בהתאם להגנות המורשות כולן תחת   ותחת   של  .
 החוקים במדינתך עשויים שלא להכיר בחופש הדיבור בתור חוק של   או של העקרונות שבמגילת האו"ם, ולכן במצב שכזה, " " איננה יכולה להיות אחראית לגבי כל עבירה פוטנציאלית על חוקים שכאלו, שאתה יכול לעשות באמצעות קישור לדומיין זה או שימוש של המידע המובא כאן בכל דרך, אמצעי או מובן אחר.
 מטרתה של ויקיפדיה היא לשמש אוסף של מידע אנושי, וככזה מצויים בה ערכים רבים הכתובים בהתנדבות על ידי כותבים רבים.
חלק מהערכים יכולים להיחשב כפוגעניים, או בוטים על ידי חלק מהקוראים.
על הכותבים להימנע מלכתוב בצורה פוגענית וכן להמנע מלהעלות תמונות אשר יכולות להיחשב כפוגעניות, אבל אין ויקיפדיה אחראית לכל נזק אשר יכול להיגרם עקב עיון בערכים או בתמונות המופיעים בוויקיפדיה.
 ויקיפדיה נערכת על ידי הציבור הרחב של משתמשי האינטרנט ולכן תיתכנה השחתות הן של מלל והן של תמונות. אין ויקיפדיה אחראית להשחתות אלה, ועושה כל מאמץ על מנת לתקנן.
 כעיקרון ויקיפדיה מאפשרת העלאת תמונות או כתיבת תוכן אשר אינו מפר את הכללים שלה, ואת חוקי המדינה, כך יאפשר העלאת כל תוכן מקורי בעל ערך אנציקלופדי, אשר ניתן לתומכו, ואשר אינו מהווה הפרה של זכויות יוצרים ומבצעים. הפרות של כלל זה הן השחתה וויקיפדיה עושה כל מאמץ למנוע אותן.
 יש לזכור כי ויקיפדיה הינה גוף התנדבותי, וככזה, ייתכן שייקח זמן מה בטרם תתוקן ההשחתה. אין ויקיפדיה אחראית לכל נזק שייגרם בפרק זמן זה.
 ויקיפדיה היא אנציקלופדיה בהתהוות תמידית, ולכן ייתכנו בערכים שגיאות, נקיטות עמדה, סתירות, או אי התאמות עם הכללים לעיל.
מהיותה של ויקיפדיה התנדבותית, אין היא אחראית לכל נזק שייגרם בשל הסתמכות על הערכים, ואם מתגלה הפרה של הכללים, תעשה כל מאמץ לתקן את הערך.
 


URL: https://jv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikip%C3%A9dia:S%C3%A9lakan_umum

Content: W  O  M  J  K 
  iku bauwarna (ènsiklopedhia) kanthi isi tinarbuka   ing jagad maya kang ngutamaaké gotong royong. Sapa waé éntuk nambahi, ngowahi, lan nyunting. Panjenengan kudu migatèaké yèn artikel sing ana ing kéné durung ditliti-priksa dèning wong-wong sing kawogan utawa para pakar kang pinercaya supaya apa sing kapacak ing kéné bisa lengkap, akurat, lan pinercaya. 
 Ananging, prakara iki uga ora ndadéaké Wikipedia kurang bisa digunaaké kanggo ngangsu kawruh. Para sukarélawan sing aktif ing kéné nyoba supaya Wikipedia bisa pinercaya. Ananging, bisa waé informasi sing ana ing kéné diowahi utawa dirusak déning wong-wong sing iseng.
 Artikel-artikel kang tinulis ing Wikipedia iku urun rembugé para penulisé dhéwé. Wikipédia ora mènèhi jaminan marang isiné.
 Sapa waé mardhika kanggo ngowahi lan mbeneraké saben artikel sing ana. Mula saka kuwi, seka prosès sing lumaku sing salawasé iki kedadèn, artikel-artikel mau bisa luwih becik.
 Ing antarané para naraguna Wikipedia, ana sawetara sing dadi  . Wong-wong iki sing njaga lan nglayani ing Wikipedia. Prakara tanggung jawab artikel-artikelé, tetep waé dadi bot-repoté bebarengan.


URL: https://ka.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E1%83%95%E1%83%98%E1%83%99%E1%83%98%E1%83%9E%E1%83%94%E1%83%93%E1%83%98%E1%83%90:%E1%83%9E%E1%83%90%E1%83%A1%E1%83%A3%E1%83%AE%E1%83%98%E1%83%A1%E1%83%9B%E1%83%92%E1%83%94%E1%83%91%E1%83%9A%E1%83%9D%E1%83%91%E1%83%98%E1%83%A1_%E1%83%A3%E1%83%90%E1%83%A0%E1%83%A7%E1%83%9D%E1%83%A4%E1%83%90

Content: ,  -  თავისუფალი შიგთავსით, არის მოხალისე  პიროვნებათა და ჯგუფთა საზოგადოება, რომლებიც ქმნიან კაცობრიობის ცოდნის საერთო საცავს.  მისი სტრუქტურიდან გამომდინარე ვიკიპედიის რედაქტირება   და   მქონე ნებისმიერ პიროვნებას შეუძლია. აქედან გამომდინარე, გთხოვთ გაითვალისწინოთ, რომ მოყვანილი ინფორმაცია შესაძლოა არ იყოს გადამოწმებული პროფესიონალთა მიერ. 
 არ შეიძლება იმის თქმა, რომ ვიკიპედიაში არ არის ზუსტი და საჭირო ინფორმაცია, თუმცა თქვენ უნდა გაითვალისწინოთ, რომ    არ არის გამორიცხული, რომ თქვენთვის საინტერესო ინფორმაცია იყო შეცვლილი, გაფუჭებული ან დაწერილი იმ პიროვნების მიერ, რომლის მოსაზრება განსხვავდება ზოგადად მიღებული მოსაზრებისგან. 
 ჩვენ ყოველთვის ვეძებთ მაქსიმალურად სწორი და გამართული სტატიების შემოწმებისა და გამორჩევის გზებს.  ჩვენი უდიდესი მიღწევაა   , თუმცა ისინიც კი შესაძლოა გააფუჭეს რამდენიმე წამის წინ სანამ თქვენ წაიკითხავდით.  
 გთხოვთ გაითვალისწინოთ, რომ ინფორმაცია, რომელსაც აქ იხილავთ, განთავსებულია თავისუფლად, როგორც კეთილი სურვილის გამოვლენა. ინფორმაციის მიმწოდებლებსა და ვიკიპედიის მფლობელებს, ადმინისტრატორებს, ოპერატორებს  ან   და მკითხველებს შორის არ არის გაფორმებული არანაირი ხელშეკრულება. აქედან გამომდინარე, ვიკიპედიის შიგთავსი ვერ გახდება იურიდიული პრეტენზიების საკითხი. თქვენ გაქვთ ვიკიპედიის კოპირების უფლება, თუმცა არც ეს გულისხმობს რაიმე იურიდიულ პასუხისმგებლობას - თქვენ იყენებთ ინფორმაციას საკუთარი სურვილით.
 ნებისმიერი სავაჭრო ნიშანი, მარკები, ორგანიზაციების, ნივთების სახელები, დიზაინი და ვიკიპედიაში გამოყენებეულ სხვა არათავისუფალი ინფორმაციაზე საავტორო უფლებებს ფლობენ მათი კანონიერი მფლობელები. ვიკიპედიის შინაარსი ვრცელდება   ლიცენზიით, და თქვენ შეგიძლიათ მისი გამოყენება მხოლოდ ამ ლიცენზიის პირობების თანახმად. გახსოვდეთ, რომ თქვენ  
 გთხოვთ ასევე გაითვალისწინოთ, რომ ზოგი ვიკიპედია განლაგებულია   ( ) და ემორჩილება ამერიკის კანონმდებლობას. თქვენი ქვეყნის კანონებმა შესაძლოა არ განსაზღვრონ სიტყვის თავისუფლება ისე ფართოდ, როგორც ამერიკის კანონმდებლობამ და    .
 , რადგანაც არის დამოუკიდებელი თავისუფალი საზოგადოება, შექმნილი საგანმანათლებლო, კულტურული და ინფორმაციული რესურსის შესაქმნელად. ინფორმაცია ვიკიპედიაში ვრცელდება   ლიცენზიით.
 გმადლობთ, რომ დახარჯეთ დრო ამ გვერდის წასაკითხად. ვიმედოვნებთ, რომ ვიკიპედია დაგიტოვებთ მხოლოდ კარგ შთაბეჭდილებებს.


URL: https://kn.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%B2%B5%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%95%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%AA%E0%B3%80%E0%B2%A1%E0%B2%BF%E0%B2%AF:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows anyone with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals with the expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
 That's not to say that you won't find valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and highlight more reliable versions of articles.  The closest thing to a formal review system that currently exists are the   and   processes, but even articles that have been vetted by those processes may later have been inappropriately edited just before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the  ; neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at Wikipedia.


URL: https://is.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Almennur_fyrirvari

Content: Wikipedia er opið samvinnu-alfræðirit á vefnum; þ.e. samfélag sjálfboðaliða og hópa sem vinnur að því að búa til sameiginlegan brunn mannlegrar þekkingar. Verkefnið er þannig uppbyggt að hver sem er sem hefur aðgang að internetinu getur breytt innihaldi þess. Hafðu í huga að ekkert að því efni sem hér er að finna hefur örugglega verið yfirfarið af fólki sem hefur sérfræðiþekkinguna til þess að búa til tæmandi, nákvæmar og áreiðanlegar upplýsingar.
 Það þýðir ekki að þú munir ekki finna réttar og gagnlegar upplýsingar á Wikipediu. Oft munt þú finna það sem þú þarft. En   Efni greinarinnar sem ert að lesa kann að hafa breyst nýlega, það verið skemmt eða því breytt af einhverjum sem hefur sterkar skoðanir á málefninu sem falla ekki að almennt viðurkenndri þekkingu. Athugaðu að aðrar og hefðbundnari alfræðiorðabækur setja áþekka fyrirvara um innihald.
 Við erum að vinna í aðferðum til þess að velja og vekja athygli á áreiðanlegum útgáfum greina. Samfélag notendanna er virkt í því að fylgjast með nýlegum breytingum og nýjum síðum til þess að vakta nýjar upplýsingar og breytingar. Wikipedia er þó ekki ritrýnd jafnt eða skipulega, notendurnir leiðrétta mögulega villur sem þeir sjá og lesa yfir efni hvers annars en þeir gera það án þess að bera nokkur skylda til þess og því er engin ábyrgð tekin á gildi upplýsinga. Það á jafnvel við um greinar sem valdar hafa verið sérstaklega sem   sem kunna að hafa breyst rétt áður en þú opnaðir greinina. 
 
 Vertu viss um að þú skiljir það að upplýsingarnar sem veittar eru hér eru veittar gjaldfrjáls og að enginn samningur og ekkert samkomulag er í gildi á milli þín annars vegar og hins vegar eigenda þessa vefs, notenda þessa vefs, eigenda vefþjónanna, höfunda Wikipediu, stjórnenda eða möppudýra eða nokkurs annars sem tengist þessu verkefni á nokkurn hátt. Þú hefur leyfi með litlum takmörkunum til þess að nota efnið héðan en það leyfi kemur ekki á og gefur ekki í skyn að framantaldir aðilar beri skaðabótaábyrgð innan eða utan samninga.
  varðandi notkun þína og breytingar á þessu efni umfram almennu afnotaleyfin Creative Commons Attribution-Sharealike 3.0 Unported License (CC-BY-SA) og GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL). Né heldur ber Wikipedia eða nokkur henni tengdur ábyrgð á breytingum annarra á því efni sem þú setur inn á Wikipediu eða systurverkefni.
 Öll vörumerki eða áþekk merki, tákn eða hönnun sem nýtur álíka réttarverndar og sem notuð eru í greinum Wikipediu eða sem vitnað er til eru eign viðkomandi rétthafa. Notkun þeirra hér er ekki ætlað að gefa það í skyn að þér sé heimilt að nota slík merki í öðrum tilgangi en í upplýsingarskyni líkt og þau eru notuð í greinunum. Ef annað er ekki sérstaklega tekið fram þá eru Wikipedia og Wikimedia hvorki studd af né tengd rétthöfum slíkra merkja og getur því ekki gefið leyfi fyrir notkun þeirra. Notkun þín á slíkum merkjum er á þína eigin ábyrgð.
 Á Wikipediu er að finna myndefni af þekkjanlegum einstaklingum sem eru enn á lífi eða nýlega látnir. Í sumum lögsögum er notkun slíkra mynda takmörkuð með lögum varðandi persónuréttindi og slíkar takmarkanir eru óháðar og ótengdar höfundarétti. Áður en þú notar slíkt myndefni skalut vera viss um að þú hafir rétt til þess að nota það samkvæmt þeim lögum sem gilda um ætlaða notkun.  
 Útgáfa efnis sem er að finna í Wikipediu kann að vera brot á lögum í því landi eða í þeirri lögsögu þar sem þú ert að skoða efnið. Gagnagrunnur Wikipediu er geymdur á vefþjónum í Bandaríkjunum og er viðhaldið það með vísan til þeirra réttarverndar sem alríkislög og ríkislög veita. Lögin í þínu landi eða þinni lögsögu veita mögulega ekki sömu vernd eða leyfa áþekka dreifingu efnisins. Wikipedia hvetur ekki til lögbrota og getur ekki tekið ábyrgð á brotum gegn slíkum lögum ef þú tengir í þennan vefm eða notar, dreifir eða gefur út efnið sem hér er að finna.
 Ef þú þarft ráðgjöf (til að mynda læknisfræðilega, lögfræðilega, fjármálalega eða varðandi áhættustjórnun) þá þarft þú að leita til fagmanns á því sviði.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Contributions/Speakfor23

Content: 

URL: https://ia.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Declaration_general_de_non-responsabilitate

Content: W  N  D  G  D  V 
  es un encyclopedia collaborative a contento aperte, isto es, un association voluntari de individuos e gruppos que disveloppa un ressource commun de cognoscentia human. Le structura del projecto permitte a omnes con un connexion a Internet e un navigator del web alterar su contento. Per favor sia informate que nihil trovate hic ha necessarimente essite revidite per professionales con le expertise requirite pro provider vos de informationes complete, accurate o digne de fide.
 Isto non es a dicer que vos non trovara informationes de valor e accurate in   multe vices vos lo facera. Nonobstante,   Le contento de cata articulo specific pote recentemente haber essite cambiate, vandalisate o alterate per alicuno cuje opinion non corresponde con le stato del cognoscentia in le campos pertinente.
 Nos es in processo de cercar methodos a seliger e dar emphase a versiones digne de fide de articulos. Nostre communitate active de editores usa instrumentos como le paginas   e   pro surveliar contento nove e cambiate. Nonobstante,   non es uniformemente revidite per pares; ben que le lectores pote corriger errores o ingagiar in   casual, illes non ha obligation legal pro facer isto, ergo tote le informationes legite hic es absolutemente sin garantia implicite de aptitude pro qualcunque fin o uso. Mesmo le articulos informalmente revidite per pares o   pote haber essite modificate inappropriatemente plus tarde, justo ante que vos los vide.
 Per favor assecura que vos comprende que le information disponibile hic es providite liberemente, e que nulle sorta de accordo o contracto es create inter vos e le proprietarios o usatores de iste sito, le proprietarios del servitores in que illo es albergate, le contributores individual de  , alicun administratores del projecto, operatores de systema o alicuno altere qui es   con iste projecto o projectos-sorores subjecte a vostre reclamationes contra illes directemente. A vos es impartite un licentia limitate a copiar qualcunque cosa de iste sito; isto nullemente crea o implica responsabilitate contractual o extracontractual del parte de   o de su agentes, membros, organisatores o altere usatores.
 Il ha   concernente vostre uso o modification de iste information ultra le   (GFDL); e nulle persona a   es responabile in caso que alicuno cambia, edita, modifica o elimina alicun information que vos pote publicar in   o in un de su projectos associate.
 Omne marcas commercial, marcas de servicio, marcas collective, derectos de designo, derectos de personalitate o derectos similar que es mentionate, usate o citate in le articulos del encyclopedia Wikipedia es le proprietate de lor proprietarios respective. Lor uso hic non implica que vos pote usar los pro altere fin que pro le mesme o un similar uso informational como contemplate per le autores original de iste articulos de Wikipedia sub le schema de licentiamento GFDL. Si non alteremente indicate, le sitos Wikipedia e Wikimedia non es appoiate per, ni affiliate con le possessores de tal derectos e per consequente   non pote impartir derectos a usar materiales alteremente protegite.  
 Le publication de information trovate in   pote esser in violation del leges del pais o jurisdiction ab ubi vos vide iste information. Le base de datos de Wikipedia es immagazinate in un servitor in le Stato de   in le  , e es mantenite in referentia al protectiones date sub lege local e federal. Le leges in vostre pais o jurisdiction pote non proteger o permitter le mesme typos de parola o distribution.   non incoragia le violation de leges; e non pote esser responsabile pro violationes de tal leges, in caso que vos face ligamines a iste dominio o usa, reproduce, o republica le information continite in isto.
 Si vos besonia consilio specific (per exemplo, medic, legal, financiari, o de administration de riscos) per favor cerca un professinoal qui es licentiate o experte in ille area. Vide
 ,  , e  
pro declarationes specific de exemption de responsabilitates.
 Gratias pro prender le tempore a leger iste pagina, e per favor gaude de vostre uso de  .
 Ben que altere encyclopedias, differentemente que Wikipedia, es professionalmente revidite per pares, illos ancora non garanti lor contento.
 Vide equalmente:  


URL: https://os.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%92%D0%B8%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%BF%D0%B5%D0%B4%D0%B8:%D0%91%C3%A6%D1%80%D0%BD

Content: Википеди у онлайн, гом, æнгомæй аразгæ энциклопеди. Проекты куыст ахæм у, æмæ чифæнды дæр, интернетмæ бахизæн кæмæн ис, йæ бон у ам исты ива. Дæ хорзæхæй, дæ зæрдыл дар уый, æмæ ам цы ссарай, уый, гæнæн ис, эксперттæ нæ ныффыстой. 
 Ай нæ нысан кæны, æмæ ды Википедийы бæлвырд информаци не ссардзынæ. Бирæ архайджытæ зилынц, цæмæй йæ æрммæг бæлвырд уа, æмæ рæстæгæй рæстæгмæ бæлвырд информаци фылдæр кæндзæн. Фæлæ уæддæр,  . Уый йеддæмæ, цыфæнды уац дæр, гæнæн ис, зианхæссæг архайæгæй ивд æрцæуа, æмæ йæ цалынмæ æндæр архайæг ма рацараза, уæдмæ уац æвзæр уагы æвдыст цæудзæн. Æндæр энциклопедитæн дæр сæ фылдæрæн ай хуызæн бæрнисæн ис.
 Википедийы æрмæг мæнг куы разына, æмæ дзы ды уый тыххæй исты хуызы куы фæ æфхæрд уай, уæд уый бæрн   Википидийы архайджытыл ис,   йæ спонсортыл æмæ   Википедиимæ искуыд баст чи у, ахæмтыл.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roland_Bartetzko

Content:  (born 1970) is a former German soldier and convicted terrorist who fought with the   in the   (1992–1995) and the   in the   (1998–1999).
 In 2001, Bartetzko orchestrated a    outside a Yugoslav government office in  , killing one   civilian, and injuring four others. After his   was found on the detonator, he was arrested and charged with  ,   and  , becoming the first Westerner to be indicted on these charges in post-war Kosovo.
 The following year, he was convicted on all counts by an international court under the supervision of the   (UNMIK), and sentenced to 23 years' imprisonment. Bartetzko's sentence was later commuted to 20 years' imprisonment. He was released on   in 2015. He has maintained his innocence and claims he was framed by UNMIK. He wrote a book in 2018.
 Bartetzko was born in the town of   near   in 1970.  He joined the   in 1987.  By the time he was dishonorably discharged from the Bundeswehr in 1992, he had reached the rank of   ( :  ). In 1992, he travelled to the   to fight in the  , where he joined the   (HVO).  
 "To be able to call myself a soldier, I thought I had to fight, otherwise, I could have joined a paintball club." Bartetzko was one of approximately 100 German citizens who volunteered to fight with the HVO, most of whom were  . Bartetzko has denied being a  .  He was assigned to the Ante "Bruno" Bušić Brigade, which fought the   (ARBiH) He also fought during the  . 
 Bartetzko left the HVO in April 1994, citing the "very cruel scenes, which could be described as atrocities," as he witnessed being committed by his fellow HVO fighters.  He subsequently volunteered to fight with the   and participated in   in the closing stages of the Bosnian War. Upon returning to Germany, Bartetzko was arrested for allegedly stealing a woman's handbag. Following the outbreak of the   in February 1998, Bartetzko travelled to  ,  . He subsequently crossed the Albanian–Yugoslav border into Kosovo and joined the   (KLA) as a volunteer. During his time with the KLA, he assumed the    , the eighth month of the  . 
 On 18 April 2001, a   exploded near the   in  , the headquarters of the Yugoslav passport office in Kosovo, killing one civilian and wounding four others, including a woman who was left with serious injuries.  Yugoslav government official Aleksandar Petrović was later identified as the man killed in the bombing. The device used in the attack was filled with metal fragments.  According to the   (UNMIK)   Andrea Angeli, it contained around 10 kilograms (22 lb) of explosive. "For the future of Kosovo it could not be a more tragic incident," UNMIK police spokesperson Derek Chappell stated. "This is an attack against everything that people trying to build this country are working for." 
 The crime scene was quickly secured by UNMIK police and     personnel. UNMIK and KFOR soon discovered the detonator that had been used in the attack and that Bartetzko's   were on it.  Bartetzko was arrested several days after the bombing.  He was charged with  ,   and  .  He was the first Westerner to be charged with murder in post-war Kosovo. 
 In 2001, Bartetzko was   from the Bundeswehr under Paragraph 55 (5) of the Soldiers' Act, which is enforced when a soldier has "culpably violated their duty to serve" or "seriously endangered the military order or the reputation of the Bundeswehr".  Bartetzko's trial commenced in February 2002; he pleaded not guilty.  The trial was held under heavy security, with   police officers wearing   and armed with  .  The prosecution argued that the bombing was a "revenge attack" stemming from Bartetzko's "hatred of Serbs". On 10 May 2002, Bartetzko was convicted on all counts and sentenced to 23 years' imprisonment. 
 Bartetzko was incarcerated at the   in western Kosovo. He filed an appeal against the first-instance verdict, and on 12 November 2002, the Supreme Court of Kosovo reduced his sentence from 23 years to 20 years. In 2009, Bartetzko filed a request for interim measures with the Constitutional Court of Kosovo, alleging violations of his right to effective legal remedy, right to appeal, and human rights guaranteed by the  . In August 2010, the motion was rejected by the Constitutional Court of Kosovo. 
 Bartetzko was released on   in 2015. Upon his release, he relocated to   and found work providing legal services to a local media company, having studied law while imprisoned. In 2018, Bartetzko published a   called ' .' He is an active contributor to the question-and-answer website  , where he discusses his wartime experiences.
 He continues to maintain that he was not responsible for the bombing of the Yugoslav passport office and has accused UNMIK of framing him.  In 2022, Bartetzko went to   to provide logistical support for the Ukrainian   amidst the   of the country. 


URL: https://ilo.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Sapasap_a_renunsia

Content: 
 Ti Wikipedia ket maysa nga online nga addaan ti nawaya ken silulukat a linaon ken nagtitinnulungan nga ensiklopedia, daytoy ket sitatallugod dagiti gunglo ken bunggoy nga agub-obra nga agparang-ay ti maysa a kadawyan a pamuspusan ti pannakaammo ti nagtagitaoan.
 Saan nga ibagbaga a saan ka a makabiruk ti napateg ken agpayso a pakaammo ditoy Wikipedia; adun to a darikmat a makabirukam ditoy. Nupay kasta,   Ti linaon ti ania man a maysa a naited nga artikulo ket mabalin a nasukatan, na-bandelismo wenno binaliwan ti sinoman nga addaan ti kapanunotan a saan nga agpada iti kasasad ti pannakaammo kadagiti maipaay a paset. Ipaammo a kaaduan kadagiti ensiklopedia ken ob-obra a pagibasaran ket addaan da ti kastoy a kapadpada a  . 
 Agub-obra kami ti sabsabali a banag ken waya ti panagpili kadagiti mapagtalken a bersion dagiti artikulo. Dagiti nasiglat nga agur-urnos iti daytoy a komunidad ket agus-usar da kadagiti ramramit a kas dagiti   ken   tapno masiputan da dagiti baro ken nasuksukatan a linaon. Nupay kasta, ti Wikipedia ket saan nga agpapada a mairepaso; bayat a dagiti agbasbasa ket mabalin da nga agpalaing kadagiti biddut wenno makitulag da ti kadawyan a pangrepaso, awanen da ti linteg nga agaramid ken isu a dagiti pakaammo a mabasa ditoy ket awan ti maipaltiing a garantia iti maitutop para iti ania man a maipanggep wenno ania man a panagusar. Uray dagita artikulo a naipatalgedan ti saan a pormal a panagrepaso wenno dagiti panagaramid kadagiti napili nga artikulo, mabalin a madi wenno saan a nasayaat ti pannakabaliw wenno pannaka-urnos da sakbay a kinitam dagitoy.
 
 Pangngaasi a maawatam a ti pakaammo a naited ditoy ket nawaya a maiwarwaras, ken awan ti ania man a tulag wenno kontrato a naaramid baetan kenka ken dagiti akinkukua weno agus-usar iti daytoy a pagsaadan, dagiti akinkukua kadagiti servers a nakaibalayan da, ti agmaymaysa a tao a nagparawad iti Wikipedia, dagiti sinoman nga administrador ti gandat, dagiti sysop wenno sinoman nga   iti daytoy a gandat wenno dagiti kakabsat na a gandat kadagiti panagtutunton mo a panagsupiat kaniada a naidagus. Naipaayan ka ti napatinggaan a lisensia ti agkopia ti ania man manipud iti daytoy a pagsaadan; saan a maka-aramid wenno agipaltiing ti ania man a kontrato wenno mainayon a kontrato a mairebbengan a naibagi ti Wikipedia wenno annia kadigiti ahente, kam-kameng, dagiti agu-ornos wenno dagiti sabsabali nga agus-usar.
 Ti ania man kadagiti marka ti pabrika, marmarka ti serbisio, naur-urnong a marmarka ti karkarbengan dagiti daremdem wenno kapadpada na a karkarbengan a naibaga, nga nausar wenno nadakamat kadagiti artikulo iti Wikipedia nga ensiklopedia ket kabukbukodan dagiti agtagikua. Ti panagusar kadagitoy ket saan nga agibagbaga a mausar mo iti ania man a panggep ngem ti laeng kapadpada na, wenno kapada na a pannakaammo a panagusar a naimatangan babaen dagiti kasisigud a nagsurat iti dagitoy nga artikulo ti Wikipedia a naisakupan babaen ti   (CC-BY-SA) ken   (GFDL) a panag-lisensia. Malaksid no saan nga naibaga ti Wikipedia ken Wikipedia a pagsasaadan ket saan a bigbigen wenno kumadua kadagiti ania man nga agtengtengngel kadagiti karbengan ken ti Wikepedia ket saan a makaited kadagiti karbengan a mausar kadagiti nasalakniban a materiales. Ti panagusar mo kadagitoy wenno ti kapadpadana a materiales a sanikua ti kampania ket adda kaniamon a panag-peggad.
 Ti Wikipedia ket naglaon kadagiti materiales a mabalin nga agiladawan ti saan a mainaganan a tao a sibibiag wenno katkatay laeng. Ti panagusar kadagiti imahen iti sibibiag wenno katkatay a tat-tao ket, iti dadduma a naisakupan, maiparit babaen ti linteg a maipanggep kadagiti karbengan ti peronalidad, a nawayaan manipud kadagiti kaniada a karbengan a kasasaad. Sakbay nga agusar kadagitoy a kita ti linaon, pangngaasi nga addaan ka ti karbengan nga agusar babaen kadagiti linteg a maidangep ti pasamak a panggepen ti panagusar mo.  
 Ti panagipablaak iti pannakaammo a mabirukan iti Wikipedia ket mabalin a makalabsing kadagiti linteg iti pagilian wenno nakaisakupan manipud ti panag-buybuyam iti datoy a pannakaammo. Ti Wikipedia database ket naipenpen iti server idiay Estado iti   iti  , ken naitaripatuan a nai-reperensia iti panagsalaknib a naited babaen ti lokal ken federal a linteg. Dagiti linteg iti pagiliam wen naisakupan ket mabalin a saan nga agsalaknib wenno agipalubos ti kapadpadana a kita ti bitla wenno panagiwarwaras. Ti Wikipedia ket saan na a paregtaen ti agpalabsing kadagiti ania man a linteg; ken saan nga akinrebbeng ti ania man a panaglabsing ti kasta a linteg, no agsilpo ka iti daytoy a pagturayan wenno agusar, alagaden, wenno agipablaak ti pannakaammo a linaon ditoy.
 No masapul mo ti naisangayan a bagbagaan (kas pagarigan, panagagas, linteg, busbos, wenno panagtaripatu ti peggad) pangngaasi nga agbiruk ka ti propesional wenno dagiti makaammo iti dayta a disso.


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_talk:Speakfor23

Content:  Hello, I'm  . I noticed that you made a change to an article,  , but you didn't provide a source. I’ve removed it for now, but if you’d like to   to a reliable source and re-add it, please do so! If you think I made a mistake, or if you have any questions, you can leave me a message on  . Thanks.    ( ) 04:06, 10 November 2023 (UTC) 
  Please refrain from making unconstructive edits to Wikipedia, as you did with   to  . Your edits appear to be   and have been   or removed. If you would like to experiment, please use the  . Repeated vandalism can result in the  . Thank you.   ( ) 08:00, 20 November 2023 (UTC) 
  Hello, I'm  . I have   that   performed by you, on the page  , may have introduced referencing errors. They are as follows:
 Please check this page and fix the errors highlighted. If you think this is a  , you can  .
Thanks,   ( ) 01:08, 18 November 2023 (UTC) 
 Hello Speakfor23. Almost all of the legal issues you added were already covered elsewhere in the article. There's no need to cover the same ground again in a "legal issues" section. Thanks,  —   ( ) 02:27, 18 November 2023 (UTC) 
  Please stop your  . If you continue to   Wikipedia, as you did with   to  , you may be  .   23:13, 21 November 2023 (UTC) 
  You may be   the next time you vandalize Wikipedia, as you did with   to  .   23:14, 21 November 2023 (UTC) 
 You have recently edited a page related to  , a topic designated as  . This is a brief introduction to contentious topics and  .
 A special set of rules applies to certain topic areas, which are referred to as  . These are specially designated topics that tend to attract more persistent disruptive editing than the rest of the project and have been designated as contentious topics by the Arbitration Committee. When editing a contentious topic, Wikipedia’s norms and policies are more strictly enforced, and Wikipedia administrators have special powers in order to reduce disruption to the project. 
 Within contentious topics, editors should edit   and  , refrain from disrupting the encyclopedia, and:
 Additionally you must be logged-in, have 500 edits and an account age of 30 days and are not allowed to make more than 1 revert within 24 hours on a page within this topic. Editors are advised to err on the side of caution if unsure whether making a particular edit is consistent with these expectations. If you have any questions about contentious topics   you may ask them at the   or you may learn more about this contentious topic  . You may also choose to note which contentious topics you know about by using the {{ }} template.   The page which you recently edited and which comes under this rule is  .   ( ) 03:16, 22 November 2023 (UTC) 
  Hello, I'm  . I have   that   performed by you, on the page  , may have introduced referencing errors. They are as follows:
 Please check this page and fix the errors highlighted. If you think this is a  , you can  .
Thanks,   ( ) 16:37, 24 November 2023 (UTC) 
  Hello, I'm  . I have   that   performed by you, on the page  , may have introduced referencing errors. They are as follows:
 Please check this page and fix the errors highlighted. If you think this is a  , you can  .
Thanks,   ( ) 17:02, 24 November 2023 (UTC) 
  Hello Speakfor23! Your additions to   have been removed in whole or in part, as they appear to have added copyrighted content without evidence that the source material is in the   or has been released by its owner or legal agent under a   copyright license. ( .) While we appreciate your contributions to Wikipedia, there are certain things you must keep in mind about using information from sources to avoid   and   issues.
 It's very important that contributors understand and follow these practices, as policy requires that people who persistently do not must be   from editing. If you have any questions about this, please ask them here on this page, or leave a message on my talk page.  Thank you.   —   ( ) 13:30, 26 November 2023 (UTC) 
  Hello, I'm  . I have   that   performed by you, on the page  , may have introduced referencing errors. They are as follows:
 Please check this page and fix the errors highlighted. If you think this is a  , you can  .
Thanks,   ( ) 17:07, 6 December 2023 (UTC) 
  Hello, I'm  . I have   that   performed by you, on the page  , may have introduced referencing errors. They are as follows:
 Please check this page and fix the errors highlighted. If you think this is a  , you can  .
Thanks,   ( ) 18:45, 6 December 2023 (UTC) 
  Your recent editing history at   shows that you are currently engaged in an  ; that means that you are repeatedly changing content back to how you think it should be, when you have seen that other editors disagree. To resolve the content dispute, please do not revert or change the edits of others when you are reverted. Instead of reverting, please use the   to work toward making a version that represents   among editors. The best practice at this stage is to discuss, not edit-war; read about  . If discussions reach an impasse, you can then post a request for help at a relevant   or seek  . In some cases, you may wish to request temporary  . 
 —especially if you violate the  , which states that an editor must not perform more than three   on a single page within a 24-hour period.  Undoing another editor's work—whether in whole or in part, whether involving the same or different material each time—counts as a revert.  Also keep in mind that while violating the three-revert rule often leads to a block, you can still be blocked for edit warring— —should your behavior indicate that you intend to continue reverting repeatedly.
 Please don't think switching from an IP to a named account fools anyone.  Suggested reading  .   17:46, 10 December 2023 (UTC) 
 Nice try on that "don't think you're fooling anyone" claim. I never did try to fool anyone so don't make the argument I did. Wikipedia signs you out if you forget to click on the "sign me in for a year" tab. I'm not making the edits now, so don't go further.  ( ) 17:53, 10 December 2023 (UTC) 
  Hello, I'm  . I have   that   performed by you, on the page  , may have introduced referencing errors. They are as follows:
 Please check this page and fix the errors highlighted. If you think this is a  , you can  .
Thanks,   ( ) 01:01, 11 December 2023 (UTC) 
 I didn't know Karina was actually the First Lady. In my edit I put her as a quick placeholder for people to fill with the correct information.   ( ) 01:53, 11 December 2023 (UTC) 
  Hello, I'm  . I have   that   performed by you, on the page  , may have introduced referencing errors. They are as follows:
 Please check this page and fix the errors highlighted. If you think this is a  , you can  .
Thanks,   ( ) 02:04, 11 December 2023 (UTC) 
  Hello, I'm  . I have   that   performed by you, on the page  , may have introduced referencing errors. They are as follows:
 Please check this page and fix the errors highlighted. If you think this is a  , you can  .
Thanks,   ( ) 20:02, 13 December 2023 (UTC) 
  Hello, I'm  . I have   that   performed by you, on the page  , may have introduced referencing errors. They are as follows:
 Please check this page and fix the errors highlighted. If you think this is a  , you can  .
Thanks,   ( ) 17:12, 20 December 2023 (UTC) 
 It is not a good look to, rather than read an article to find where information already is, insist you have your way until you are shown where. I have pointed you in the right direction, but even just Ctrl+F keywords is an option that is much less hostile towards fellow editors.
 Furthermore, and as I have seen you have already been warned about several times here, you really need to understand  . Both in terms of when it is appropriate to create an independent section for something, and what kind of 'extracurricular' elements are appropriate in a footballer BLP career section.
 Specifically, adding a new paragraph to a career section to say (effectively) "it was reported that someone else behaved inappropriately towards them", particularly when the revelations have not gone further than existing and the brief media reaction was just 'this has been said', is far too much prominence. And there would be reason to discuss if it should go in a public image section or similar since it's not effected their careers, if it is significant enough to include in the first place.   ( ) 23:59, 20 December 2023 (UTC) 
  Hello, I'm  . I have   that   performed by you, on the page  , may have introduced referencing errors. They are as follows:
 Please check this page and fix the errors highlighted. If you think this is a  , you can  .
Thanks,   ( ) 21:42, 4 January 2024 (UTC) 
 It is clear that "living person accused of a crime is presumed innocent until convicted by a court of law. Accusations, investigations and arrests do not amount to a conviction. For individuals who are not public figures—that is, individuals not covered by § Public figures—editors must seriously consider not including material—in any article—that suggests the person has committed or is accused of having committed a crime, unless a conviction has been secured.
 If different judicial proceedings result in seemingly contradictory outcomes that do not overrule each other,[e] include sufficient explanatory information."
 The edit relates to a lawsuit involving Disney executives who are public figures and there is no conclusive suggestion of guilt.  ( ) 07:38, 7 January 2024 (UTC) 
  You currently appear to be engaged in an    according to the reverts you have made on  . This means that you are repeatedly changing content back to how you think it should be although other editors disagree. Users are expected to   with others, to avoid editing  , and to  , rather than repeatedly undoing other users' edits once it is known that there is a disagreement.
 Points to note:
 If you find yourself in an editing dispute, use the article's   to discuss controversial changes and work towards a version that represents consensus among editors. You can post a request for help at an   or seek  . In some cases, it may be appropriate to  . If you engage in an edit war, you      ( ) 21:36, 10 January 2024 (UTC) 
  Your recent editing history at   shows that you are currently engaged in an  ; that means that you are repeatedly changing content back to how you think it should be, when you have seen that other editors disagree. To resolve the content dispute, please do not revert or change the edits of others when you are reverted. Instead of reverting, please use the   to work toward making a version that represents   among editors. The best practice at this stage is to discuss, not edit-war; read about  . If discussions reach an impasse, you can then post a request for help at a relevant   or seek  . In some cases, you may wish to request temporary  . 
 —especially if you violate the  , which states that an editor must not perform more than three   on a single page within a 24-hour period.  Undoing another editor's work—whether in whole or in part, whether involving the same or different material each time—counts as a revert.  Also keep in mind that while violating the three-revert rule often leads to a block, you can still be blocked for edit warring— —should your behavior indicate that you intend to continue reverting repeatedly. -   19:07, 12 January 2024 (UTC) 
 Please discuss this change on the talk page and stop editwarring on other pages.  -   19:06, 12 January 2024 (UTC) 
  Hello, I'm  . I have   that   performed by you, on the page  , may have introduced referencing errors. They are as follows:
 Please check this page and fix the errors highlighted. If you think this is a  , you can  .
Thanks,   ( ) 00:26, 16 January 2024 (UTC) 
  You have recently made edits related to post-1992 politics of the United States and closely related people. This is a standard message to inform you that post-1992 politics of the United States and closely related people is a designated contentious topic. This message  . For more information about the contentious topics system, please see  .    ( ) 22:09, 18 January 2024 (UTC) 
  Hello, I'm  . I have   that   performed by you, on the page  , may have introduced referencing errors. They are as follows:
 Please check this page and fix the errors highlighted. If you think this is a  , you can  .
Thanks,   ( ) 18:35, 23 January 2024 (UTC) 
 Hi. Thank you for your recent edits. An automated process has detected that when you recently edited  , you added a link pointing to the disambiguation page  . Such links are  , since a disambiguation page is merely a list of unrelated topics with similar titles.  
 It's OK to remove this message. Also, to stop receiving these messages, follow these  . Thanks, --  ( ) 05:51, 24 January 2024 (UTC) 
 Thank you for your update to  . I notice you tried to add year of birth as 1930. Do you have a published source for this? For now, I have applied {{ }} and {{ }}.   ( ) 03:17, 31 January 2024 (UTC) 
 P.S. I also didn't see cause of death in the supporting citation.   ( ) 03:30, 31 January 2024 (UTC) 
 I have even included a Movie Web source backing what Screen Rant claimed. Try denying that source too. .  ( ) 13:44, 4 February 2024 (UTC) 
  Your recent editing history at   shows that you are currently engaged in an  ; that means that you are repeatedly changing content back to how you think it should be, when you have seen that other editors disagree. To resolve the content dispute, please do not revert or change the edits of others when you are reverted. Instead of reverting, please use the   to work toward making a version that represents   among editors. The best practice at this stage is to discuss, not edit-war; read about  . If discussions reach an impasse, you can then post a request for help at a relevant   or seek  . In some cases, you may wish to request temporary  . 
 —especially if you violate the  , which states that an editor must not perform more than three   on a single page within a 24-hour period.  Undoing another editor's work—whether in whole or in part, whether involving the same or different material each time—counts as a revert.  Also keep in mind that while violating the three-revert rule often leads to a block, you can still be blocked for edit warring— —should your behavior indicate that you intend to continue reverting repeatedly.   ( ) 15:55, 4 February 2024 (UTC) 
  Hello, I'm  . I have   that   performed by you, on the page  , may have introduced referencing errors. They are as follows:
 Please check this page and fix the errors highlighted. If you think this is a  , you can  .
Thanks,   ( ) 21:17, 14 February 2024 (UTC) 
 Wow, you added a lot of material that barely touches on   to the article about him. Your addition to the paragraph introduces six new characters (Azoff, Henley, Frey, Horowitz, Inciardi and Kosinski), mentioning them 13 times while quadrupling its length, while mentioning Sanders four times. This does not seem like an appropriate edit to an encyclopedia article.   ( ) 19:41, 27 February 2024 (UTC) 
  Hello, I'm  . I have   that   performed by you, on the page  , may have introduced referencing errors. They are as follows:
 Please check this page and fix the errors highlighted. If you think this is a  , you can  .
Thanks,   ( ) 20:31, 5 March 2024 (UTC) 
  Hello, I'm  . I have   that   performed by you, on the page  , may have introduced referencing errors. They are as follows:
 Please check this page and fix the errors highlighted. If you think this is a  , you can  .
Thanks,   ( ) 13:34, 11 April 2024 (UTC) 
 On 13 April 2024,   was updated with an item that involved the article  , which you updated. If you know of another recently created or updated article suitable for inclusion in ITN, please suggest it on the  .   ( ) 15:27, 13 April 2024 (UTC) 
  Hello, I'm  . I have   that   performed by you, on the page  , may have introduced referencing errors. They are as follows:
 Please check this page and fix the errors highlighted. If you think this is a  , you can  .
Thanks,   ( ) 22:26, 22 April 2024 (UTC) 


URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special:Contributions/2601:1C2:1A00:2B5:E87D:59A4:C2B1:A08A

Content: 

URL: https://id.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Penyangkalan_umum

Content: Wikipedia adalah ensiklopedia isi terbuka dalam jaringan yang kolaboratif. Artinya, Wikipedia merupakan sekumpulan individu dan kelompok yang bekerja sukarela dalam membangun sumber daya bersama berupa pengetahuan umat manusia. Struktur proyeknya memungkinkan siapa saja yang memiliki sambungan Internet untuk mengubah isinya. Harap diketahui bahwa semua yang ada di sini belum ditinjau oleh orang-orang dengan keahlian yang dibutuhkan untuk menyajikan informasi yang lengkap, akurat, dan tepercaya.
 Hal tersebut tidak berarti bahwa Anda tidak dapat menemukan informasi berharga dan akurat di Wikipedia. Anda akan sering menemukannya. Akan tetapi,  . Isi artikel mana pun mungkin baru saja diubah, dirusak, atau diganti oleh seseorang yang opininya tidak sesuai dengan pengetahuan di bidang yang terkait. Harap diingat bahwa kebanyakan ensiklopedia dan karya referensi lainnya  .
 Komunitas penyunting kami yang aktif menggunakan perangkat seperti   dan   untuk mengawasi penambahan dan perubahan isi. Namun, Wikipedia tidak mendapat penilaian sejawat secara merata. Walaupun para pembaca dapat memperbaiki kesalahan atau terlibat dalam proses   ( ) biasa, mereka tidak punya kewajiban hukum untuk melakukannya sehingga semua informasi yang disajikan di sini tidak disertai jaminan kelayakan untuk keperluan atau penggunaan apa pun. Bahkan, artikel yang telah melalui proses penilaian sejawat informal atau   bisa saja telah disunting secara tidak benar tepat sebelum Anda membacanya.
 
 Harap yakinkan bahwa Anda mengerti bahwa informasi yang ada di sini disediakan secara secara bebas dan tidak ada perjanjian atau kontrak yang dibuat antara Anda dan para pemilik atau pengguna situs ini, pemilik server yang ditempati, individu kontributor Wikipedia, pengurus proyek, atau siapa pun yang dengan cara apa pun   dengan proyek ini atau proyek kerabatnya yang dapat dijadikan dasar untuk melakukan tuntutan secara langsung terhadap mereka. Anda diberikan suatu lisensi terbatas untuk menyalin apa pun dari situs ini; hal tersebut tidak menyebabkan suatu kewajiban kontraktual atau ekstrakontraktual bagi pihak Wikipedia, agen, anggota, penyelenggara, atau pengguna lain.
  mengenai penggunaan atau modifikasi informasi ini di bawah   ( , GFDL); juga tidak ada seseorang di Wikipedia yang bertanggung jawab jika seseorang mengubah, menyunting, memodifikasi, atau membuang informasi apa pun yang mungkin Anda masukkan di Wikipedia atau proyek lain yang berhubungan.
 Segala bentuk merek dagang, merek jasa, merek kolektif, dan hak desain atau hak-hak semacamnya yang disebutkan, digunakan, ataupun dikutip di artikel apa pun di ensiklopedia Wikipedia adalah hak milik (properti) dari pemiliknya masing-masing. Penggunannya di sini tidak berarti bahwa Anda (pembaca) dapat menggunakannya untuk kepentingan apa pun selain dari penggunaan yang sama atau mirip, yaitu penggunaan secara informasional sebagaimana yang dikehendaki oleh para penulis di artikel Wikipedia tersebut di bawah  .
 Kecuali disebutkan sebaliknya, maka situs-situs Wikipedia dan Wikimedia tidak mempromosikan dan tidak terafiliasi dengan pemilik merek dan hak-hak di atas, sehingga Wikipedia tidak dapat memberikan izin untuk menggunakan materi-materi yang dilindungi tersebut. Jika Anda menggunakannya, maka Anda menggunakannya dengan risiko sendiri.
 Wikipedia mengandung materi-materi yang mungkin menampilkan wajah dan penampakan seseorang yang masih hidup atau yang baru saja meninggal. Penggunakan gambar, foto, dan materi sejenisnya dari individu yang masih hidup maupun baru saja meninggal, di beberapa yuridiksi hukum, dibatasi oleh hukum terkait  , yang independen atau terlepas dari status hak ciptanya (pembuatan fotonya).
 Sebelum menggunakan konten sejenis ini, mohon pastikan bahwa Anda (pembaca) memiliki hak untuk menggunakannya di bawah hukum perundang-undangan yang berlaku di tempat Anda untuk kepentingan yang Anda maksudkan.  
 Publikasi informasi yang ditemukan di Wikipedia mungkin melanggar hukum negara atau yurisdiksi di wilayah tempat Anda membaca informasi ini. Pangkalan data Wikipedia disimpan di peladen yang berlokasi di Amerika Serikat, dan berada dalam perlindungan hukum lokal dan federal setempat. Hukum di negara atau yurisdiksi Anda mungkin tidak melindungi atau mengizinkan pembicaraan atau distribusi yang serupa. Wikipedia tidak mendorong pelanggaran hukum apa pun dan tidak dapat dikenai tanggung jawab untuk segala pelanggaran hukum tersebut jika Anda menghubungkan ke ranah ( ) ini atau menggunakan, mereproduksi, atau menerbitkan ulang informasi yang tercantum di sini.
 Jika Anda mencari nasihat spesifik (contohnya medis, legal, keuangan, atau manajemen risiko), silakan cari seorang profesional yang berlisensi atau memiliki pengetahuan pada bidang tersebut.
  Kebanyakan pengajar dan pekerja profesional tidak mengakui penggunaan   (seperti ensiklopedia) sebagai sumber informasi satu-satunya—memasukkan ensiklopedia sebagai rujukan penting di bagian catatan kaki atau daftar pustaka akan mengakibatkan tulisan Anda dicoret atau diturunkan nilainya. Gunakan artikel Wikipedia untuk mencari informasi dasar, makna kata dan istilah pencarian, serta acuan awal sebelum melakukan penelitian lebih lanjut.
 Seperti sumber informasi yang ditulis masyarakat umum lainnya, selalu ada potensi kekeliruan di dalam artikel Wikipedia—bandingkan informasi yang Anda dapat dengan sumber-sumber lain dan baca   kami untuk ketentuan lebih lanjut.
 (Pesan di atas ditampilkan setiap kali pembaca mengeklik   di suatu halaman )
  
 Dasar-dasar Wikipedia
 Prinsip dasar dalam sejarah
 Ringkasan konvensi Wikipedia
 Berlaku di semua proyek (di meta-wiki)
 Daftar lengkap kebijakan resmi
  


URL: https://ig.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content.  Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.  However,    The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.  
 We are working on ways to select and highlight reliable versions of articles.  Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content.  However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever.  Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://zu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://xh.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:General_disclaimer

Content:  -   -   -   -  
 W  M  N  G  O  V 
  is an online open-content encyclopedia, that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups who are developing a common resource of human knowledge. Its structure allows any individual with an Internet connection and World Wide Web browser to alter the content found here.  Therefore, please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by professionals who are knowledgeable in the particular areas of expertise necessary to provide you with complete, accurate or reliable information about any subject in  .
 That's not to say that you won't find much valuable and accurate information at  , however please be advised that    It may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the particular area you are interested in learning about. We are working on ways to select and approve more trustable versions of articles, but still without warranty. The closest thing to this that currently exists is the   process, but even the articles listed there may have been mercilessly edited shortly before you view them.
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided free and gratuitously, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual   contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of   or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia can not grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials.  
 Please note that that the information found here may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information.   does not encourage the violation of any laws, but as this information is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , it is being maintained in reference to the protections afforded to all under the  's   and under the principles of the   of the  . The laws in your country may not recognize as broad a protection of free speech as the laws of the United States or the principles under the UN Charter, and as such,   cannot be responsible for any potential violations of such laws should you link to this domain or use any of the information contained herein in anyway whatsoever.
 , as it is a voluntary association of individuals developed freely to create various open source online educational, cultural and informational resources.   and there is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   neither is anyone at   responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on   or any of its associated projects.
 Thank you for spending the time to read this page, and please enjoy your experience at  .


URL: https://it.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Avvertenze_generali

Content: 
 
  è un'enciclopedia online a contenuto aperto, frutto del lavoro di un insieme di volontari, con lo scopo di sviluppare una fonte di conoscenza comune e libera.
Sebbene esistano   e un sistema non ufficiale di gestione anonimo e volontario, la struttura dell'enciclopedia permette a chiunque di modificare il contenuto delle sue pagine.
 È pertanto necessario tenere presente che:
 .
Ciò, naturalmente, non implica la mancanza di informazioni interessanti o accurate, ma è importante sapere che su Wikipedia ogni contenuto può essere modificato, alterato o   da chiunque.
Ciò significa che ogni dato o informazione presente nelle voci di Wikipedia potrebbe non rappresentare adeguatamente l'effettivo stato della conoscenza condivisa o la verità dei fatti.
Alcune edizioni linguistiche di Wikipedia hanno adottato  , ma sempre in forma volontaria e senza garanzia.
La cosa più vicina a questo sistema di selezione è l'attuale sezione « »; tuttavia anche le voci in essa presenti potrebbero essere state successivamente modificate senza il controllo necessario.
 
 Le informazioni riportate sono fornite in maniera libera e gratuita.
Nessun tipo di accordo o contratto sussiste — sia pure in forma implicita — tra l'utente e i proprietari del sito, gli utenti, i proprietari dei server, gli amministratori del progetto, gli amministratori di sistema o qualsiasi altra parte   a Wikipedia o ai progetti collaterali.
 Qualsiasi  , marchio di fabbrica, marchio collettivo, diritto di design, diritto d'immagine, di tutela dei propri dati personali o altri diritti simili, menzionati o utilizzati nelle voci di Wikipedia, è di proprietà dei legittimi detentori.
Tutto il materiale che si trova su Wikipedia è pubblicato dagli utenti (dei quali è conservato l'indirizzo IP a scopo cautelativo) secondo quanto previsto dalle   (CC BY-SA) e   (GFDL).
Wikipedia non può garantire che gli utenti abbiano effettivamente ottemperato a quanto richiesto da dette licenze e non abbiano, quindi, leso alcun diritto: la responsabilità della pubblicazione rimane perciò esclusivamente in capo agli utenti.
Laddove non diversamente dichiarato i siti di Wikipedia e Wikimedia non sono né associati a, né approvati da alcuno dei detentori di tali diritti.
  ed è espressamente vietato.
 È garantita una licenza limitata di copia dei contenuti (secondo le condizioni previste dalle licenze CC BY-SA e GFDL), ma ciò non crea né implica alcuna responsabilità contrattuale o extra-contrattuale da parte di Wikipedia o di uno qualsiasi dei suoi agenti, membri, organizzatori o altre parti.
 
 Le informazioni presenti potrebbero violare delle leggi del luogo di loro fruizione.
Wikipedia non incoraggia le violazioni di legge ma, siccome le informazioni sono conservate su server posti in  , negli  , si assumono a riferimento le disposizioni generali stabilite dal   della   e dalla   delle  .
Alcune legislazioni nazionali potrebbero non accordare una talmente ampia protezione della libertà di parola: Wikipedia non è responsabile per eventuali utilizzi dei propri contenuti considerati illeciti in tali Paesi.
 
 Leggere anche le avvertenze     e   per le liberatorie o per clausole specifiche di esclusione di responsabilità (disclaimer).
  in quanto essa è un'associazione volontaria di individui solo parzialmente strutturata e sviluppata liberamente per creare risorse educative, culturali e informative, online e aperte.
  e   circa il loro utilizzo o modifica, a parte il rispetto delle licenze CC BY-SA e GFDL; parimenti nessuno in Wikipedia è responsabile per il fatto che chicchessia cambi, modifichi o rimuova qualsiasi informazione che chiunque altro o egli medesimo possa aver inserito su Wikipedia o su uno qualsiasi dei suoi progetti associati.
 Il contenuto di questa pagina si applica a   presente in Wikipedia.
 Grazie per il tempo speso per la lettura di queste avvertenze generali, e auguri per una navigazione utile e piacevole su Wikipedia.


URL: https://gor.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Mom%C4%81hu_umum

Content: Wikipedia yito ensiklopedia tuwangiyo bu'a-buade to delomo jaringan umum, ma'analiyo Wikipedia botiya himbunguwa lo tawu ngota wawu tawu daata ta hipokarajawa pe'eenta lo'u pereyi momongu sumberdaya bersama berupa pengetahuan umat manusia. Struktur proyeknya memungkinkan siapa saja yang memiliki koneksi Internet untuk mengubah isinya. Harap diketahui bahwa semua yang ada di sini belum ditinjau oleh orang-orang dengan keahlian yang dibutuhkan untuk menyajikan informasi yang lengkap, akurat, dan tepercaya.
 Bukan berarti Anda tidak dapat menemukan informasi berharga dan akurat di Wikipedia. Anda akan sering menemukannya. Akan tetapi,  . Isi artikel mana pun mungkin baru saja diubah, dirusak, atau diganti oleh seseorang yang opininya tidak sesuai dengan pengetahuan di bidang yang terkait. Harap diingat bahwa kebanyakan ensiklopedia dan karya referensi lainnya  .
 Komunitas penyunting kami yang aktif menggunakan perangkat seperti   dan   untuk mengawasi penambahan dan perubahan isi. Tetapi Wikipedia tidak mendapat penilaian sejawat secara merata. Walaupun para pembaca dapat memperbaiki kesalahan atau terlibat dalam proses   ( ) biasa, mereka tidak punya kewajiban hukum untuk melakukannya sehingga semua informasi yang disajikan di sini tidak disertai jaminan kelayakan untuk keperluan atau penggunaan apa pun. Bahkan artikel yang telah melalui proses penilaian sejawat informal atau   nantinya akan disunting secara tidak benar, tepat sebelum Anda membacanya.
 
 Harap yakinkan bahwa Anda mengerti bahwa informasi yang ada di sini disediakan secara secara bebas, dan tak ada perjanjian atau kontrak yang dibuat antara Anda dan para pemilik atau pengguna
situs ini, pemilik server yang ditempati, individu kontributor Wikipedia, pengurus proyek, atau siapa pun yang dengan cara apa pun   dengan proyek ini atau proyek kerabatnya yang dapat dijadikan dasar untuk melakukan tuntutan secara langsung terhadap mereka. Anda diberikan suatu lisensi terbatas untuk menyalin apa pun dari situs ini; hal tersebut tidak menyebabkan suatu kewajiban kontraktual atau ekstra kontraktual bagi pihak Wikipedia atau agen, anggota, penyelenggara, atau pengguna lain.
  mengenai penggunaan atau modifikasi informasi ini di bawah   ( , GFDL); juga tidak ada seseorang di Wikipedia yang bertanggung jawab jika seseorang mengubah, menyunting, memodifikasi, atau membuang informasi apa pun yang mungkin Anda masukkan di Wikipedia atau proyek lain yang berhubungan.
 Publikasi informasi yang ditemukan di Wikipedia mungkin melanggar hukum negara atau yurisdiksi di wilayah tempat Anda membaca informasi ini. Basis data Wikipedia disimpan di peladen di negara bagian   di  , dan berada dalam perlindungan hukum lokal dan federal setempat. Hukum di negara atau yurisdiksi Anda mungkin tidak melindungi atau mengizinkan pembicaraan atau distribusi yang serupa. Wikipedia tidak mendorong pelanggaran hukum apa pun; dan tidak dapat dikenai tanggung jawab untuk segala pelanggaran hukum tersebut, jika Anda menghubungkan ke ranah ( ) ini atau menggunakan, mereproduksi, atau menerbitkan ulang informasi yang tercantum di sini.
 Jika Anda mencari nasihat spesifik (contohnya medis, legal, keuangan, atau manajemen risiko) silakan cari seorang profesional yang berlisensi atau memiliki pengetahuan pada bidang tersebut.


URL: https://hr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedija:Op%C4%87e_odricanje_od_odgovornosti

Content:  –   –   –  
 W 
  je internetska enciklopedija otvorenog sadržaja koja funkcionira na temelju volonterske suradnje pojedinaca i skupina pojedinaca, s zajedničkim ciljem stvaranja izvora ljudskog znanja. Ustrojstvo projekta omogućava svakoj osobi s vezom na Internet i preglednikom World Wide Weba mijenjanje sadržaja enciklopedije. Molimo shvatite da nijedan podatak koji ovdje pronađete nije nužno provjerio profesionalac, niti ovdjeprisutni mogu osigurati potpunu, točnu ili pouzdanu informaciju.
 To ne znači da u   nećete pribaviti vrijednu i točnu informaciju, naprotiv, najčešće hoćete. Međutim,    Sadržaj članaka može u svakom trenutku izmijeniti, vandalizirati ili preinačiti pojedinac čije mišljenje nije odraz znanja iz tog područja.  
 Trenutno radimo na načinima odabiranja i isticanja pouzdanih inačica članaka. Naša aktivna zajednica urednika pri praćenju i mijenjanju sadržaja koristi alate poput pohrane   i  . No   se ne pregledava ujednačeno, a čitatelji se, iako mogu ispravljati greške, ne nalaze pod pravnom obvezom, pa informacije koje ovdje pročitate nemaju naznačeno jamstvo ispravnosti za bilo kakvo korištenje. Čak i ravnopravno i nepristrano vrednovani ili   zadržavaju vjerojatnost naknadnog neprikladnog uređivanja.
 Molimo, shvatite da doprinose u vidu informacija dajete slobodno, i pritom ne dolazi ni do kakavog sporazuma između vas i vlasnika ili korisnika stranica, vlasnika poslužitelja na kojima su postavljene, pojedinih suradnika  , administratora projekta, "sysopa" ili ikoga tko je   s ovim ili nekim od sestrinskih projekata. Ta ista osoba ne može izravno odgovarati na vaše optužbe. Dodijeljena vam je ograničena licenca s pravom kopiranja cjelokupnog sadržaja ovih stranica, no ona ne podrazumijeva niti dovodi do ugovorne ili izvanugovorne odgovornosti   ili njenih agenata, članova, organizatora ili drugih korisnika.
  u vezi Vašeg korištenja ili modificiranja ovih informacija izvan okvira   licencije i   (GFDL); niti je itko na Wikipediji odgovoran ukoliko netko izmijeni, uredi, promijeni ili ukloni bilo koju informaciju koju ste možda postavili na Wikipediji ili bilo kojem s njom povezanih projekata. 
 Zaštitni znakovi, zbirni i znakovi službe, patentna prava, prava identiteta ili slična spomenuta, korištena ili u Wikipedijinim člancima navedena prava, su imovina svojih vlasnika. Njihova pojavnost na ovim stranicama ne znači da ih možete koristiti za svrhu drugačiju od iste ili slične informacijske namjene, a u skladu s namjerom autora enciklopedijskih članaka u skladu s GFDL dozvolom. Osim ako nije drugačije navedeno,   Wikipedia i Wikimedia ne podržavaju niti su ni na koji način povezani s nositeljima tih prava, pa kao takva   ne jamči pravo na korištenje inače zaštićene građe.  
 Podaci objavljeni u   možda krše zakone države iz koje pregledate te podatke. Wikipedijina baza podataka nalazi se na poslužitelju u  , te se održava u skladu s uputama o čuvanju koje pružaju mjesni i federalni zakoni. Zakonska regulativa u vašoj zemlji možda ne štiti ili ne dopušta istu slobodu govora ili kopiranja.   ne potiče kršenje zakona, niti se može smatrati odgovornom za zlodjela koja proizlaze iz vašeg povezivanja na ovu domenu, korištenja, reprodukcije ili objavljivanja informacija koje ovdje pronađete.
 Ako trebate savjet u nekom području (medicina, pravo, financije, ili vezano uz određeni rizik), molimo potražite stručnjaka koji je licenciran, poznat ili prihvaćen u svom području. Za posebna odricanja pogledajte  ,   i  .
 Zahvaljujemo na vremenu koje ste utrošili na čitanje ove stranice; nastavite uživati u blagodatima  !


URL: https://hy.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D5%8E%D5%AB%D6%84%D5%AB%D5%BA%D5%A5%D5%A4%D5%AB%D5%A1:%D4%B8%D5%B6%D5%A4%D5%B0%D5%A1%D5%B6%D5%B8%D6%82%D6%80_%D5%B0%D6%80%D5%A1%D5%AA%D5%A1%D6%80%D5%A1%D5%A3%D5%AB%D6%80

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 
 Վիքիպեդիան առցանց, ազատ բովանդակությամբ համատեղ ստեղծվող հանրագիտարան է, և  մարդկային գիտելիքների ընդհանուր շտեմարան ստեղծելու նպատակով միասին աշխատող անհատների ու մարդկանց խմբերի կամավոր համագործակցության արդյունքն է։ Նախագծի կառուցվածքով ցանկացած մարդ, ով համացանցի հետ կապ ունի, կարող է փոխել հանրագիտարանի պարունակությունը։ Խնդրում ենք նկատի ունենալ, որ այստեղ գրված ոչ մի բան անպայմանորեն չի ստուգվել  փորձագիտական որակավորում ունեցող մարդկանց կողմից ձեզ ավարտուն, ճշգրիտ ու վստահելի տեղեկություններ հրամցնելու համար։
 Սակայն դա բնավ չի նշանակում, որ դուք Վիքիպեդիայում չեք գտնի արժեքավոր և ճշգրիտ տեղեկություններ։ Իրականում մեծիմասամբ այդպես էլ կլինի։ Սակայն,    Ցանկացած հոդվածի բովանդակությունը կարող է րոպեներ առաջ փոխված լինել, աղավաղված կամ փոփոխության ենթարկված որևէ մեկի կողմից, ում գիտելիքների մակարդակը չի համապատասխանում տվյալ բնագավառին վերաբերող ներկայիս իմացության մակարդակի հետ։  Ընդ որում շատ այլ հանրագիտարաններ և տեղեկատուներ նույնպես ունեն     ։
 Մենք աշխատոմ ենք ընտրել և առանձնացնել հոդվածների վստահելի տարբերակները։ Մեր խմբագիրների ակտիվ հանրությունը օգտագործում է այնպիսի գործիքներ ինչպես    և  , որոնք օգնում են վերահսկել նոր և փոփոխված բովանդակությունը։ Սակայն, Վիքիպեդիան միայն համամասնակիցների կողմից խմբագրվում է, ցանկացած ընթերցող որևէ սխալ նկատելու դեպքում կարող է շտկել այն կամ պատահական բնույթի խմբագրում կատարել (տես  : Համամասնակիցներն իրենք ոչ մի իրավական պարտավորություն չեն կրում դա անելու համար և ուստի այստեղ ընթերցված բոլոր տեղեկությունները ոչ մի երաշխիքներ չեն տալիս  որևէ նպատակի կամ օգտագործման տեսակի հետ դրանց համապատասխանության համար։  Նույնիսկ այն հոդվածները, որոնք համամասնակիցների ոչ պաշտոնական վերստուգման արդյունքում գնահատվել են որպես   հնարավոր է որ ավելի ուշ անհամապատասխան կամ անհարիր վերախմբագրման են ենթարկվել ճիշտ ձեր ընթերցումից առաջ։
 
 Խնդրում ենք հասկանալ, որ այստեղ զետեղված տեղեկատվությունը գրվել և առաջարկվել է անվճար, և որ ոչ մի տեսակի համաձայնագիր կամ պայմանագիր չի գրվել կամ  չի գրվելու ձեր և այս կայքի սեփականատերերի կամ օգտագործողների միջև, կամ այն սերվերների տերերի հետ, ովքեր հյուրընկալում են այս կայքը, ինչպես նաև Վիքիպեդիայի անհատ հոդվածագիրների, որևիցե նախագծի ադմինիստրատորների, սիստեմ օպերատորների կամ ցանկացած որևէ մեկի հետ, որը   այս նախագծի կամ քույր նախագծերի հետ, որոնց նկատմամբ դուք անմիջականորեն կարող եք որևէ բողոք ունենալ։ Ձեզ տրվում է սահմանափակ իրավասություն պատճենել կայքում զետեղված ցանկացած նյութ, ինչը չի ստեղծում կամ չի ենթադրում որևէ պայմանագրային կամ արտապայմանագրային պարտավորություն ոչ Վիքիպեդիայի կողմից ոչ էլ նրա որևէ գործակալի, անդամի, կազմակերպության կամ այլ օգտագործողների կողմից։ 
 Չկա    ձեր կողմից այստեղ եղած որևէ տեղեկույթի օգտագործման կամ փոփոխման վերաբերյալ՝ ավելին քան ենթադրվում է    (CC-BY-SA) և   (GFDL) արտոնագրերով, ոչ էլ Վքիպեդիայում որևէ մեկը պատասխանատվություն է կրում Վիքիպեդիայում կամ դրան կից նախագծերից որևէ մեկում ձեր տեղադրած ցանկացած նյութի համար, եթե այն փոխվել է, խմբագրվել կամ ջնջվել որևէ մեկի կողմից։
 Ցանկացած ապրանքանիշ, սպասարկման առևտրային խորհրդանիշ, հավաքական խորհրդանիշ, դիզայնի իրավունքներ կամ նմանատեսակ այլ իրավունքներ, որոնք հիշատակվում, օգտագործվում կամ ցիտվում են Վիքիպեդիա հանրագիտարանի հոդվածներում հանդիսանում են նրանց համապատասխան տերերի սեփականությունը։ Նրանց օգտագործումն այստեղ չի ենթադրում, որ դուք կարող եք օգտագործել դրանք ցանկացած ուրիշ նպատակով բացի նույնատեսակ կամ նմանատեսակ տեղեկատվական օգտագործումից  ինչպես նախատեսվել է Վիքիպեդիայի այդ հոդվածների սկզբնական հեղինակների կողմից՝ CC-BY-SA և GFDL արտոնագրային բանաձևերով։ Այլ հայտարարությունների բացակայության դեպքում Վիքիպեդիա և Վիքիմեդիա կայքերը ոչ լիազորված են այդ իրավատերերից որևէ մեկի կողմից. ոչ ստացել են նրանց թույլտվությունը, ոչ էլ որևէ այլ կապ ունեն նրանց հետ և որպես այդպիսին Վիքիպեդիան չի կարող օգտագործման որևէ իրավունք տալ այլ կերպ պաշտպանված որևէ նյութի համար։  Ձեր կողմից որևէ նման կամ նմանատեսակ սեփականատիրական իրավունքով պաշտպանված սեփականության օգտագործման պատասխանատուն միայն դուք եք։
 Վիքիպեդիան պարունակում է այնպիսի նյութեր, որոնք կարող են նկարագրել ճանաչելի անհատների, ովքեր ողջ են կամ վերջերս են հեռացել կյանքից։  Դեռ ողջ կամ վերջերս կյանքից հեռացած անհատների դիմանկարների օգտագործումը որոշ իրավադատություններում, սահմանափակվում է օրենքներով, որոնք կոչված են պաշտպանել  , անկախ նրանց դիմանկարներով նյութերի ունեցած հեղինակային իրավունքի կարգավիճակից։ Մինչև նմանատեսակ բովանդակությամբ նյութերի օգտագործումը, խնդրում ենք նախ համոզվել, որ իրավասու եք օգտագործել դրանք այն օրենքների ներքո որոնք կիրառելի են ձեր նախատեսած օգտագործման նկատմամբ։   
 Վիքիպեդիայից վերցված տեղեկույթի հետագա հրապարակումը, կարող է հակասել այն երկրի օրենքներին, կամ իրավադատությանը, որտեղից դուք դիտում եք այդ տեղեկատվությունը։ Վիքիպեդիայի տվյալների շտեմարանը տեղադրված է     նահանգում, և շահագործվում է  տեղական և դաշնային համապատասխան օրենքների պաշտպանության ներքո։ Ձեր երկրի օրենքները կամ իրավադատությունը կարող են չպաշտպանել կամ թույլ չտալ նմանատեսակ խոսքի ոճը (ազատությունը) կամ տեղեկատվության տարածումը։ Վիքիպեդիան չի խրախուսում որևէ օրենքի խախտում, այն դեպքում, եթե դուք կապվել եք այս ցանցային տիրույթի հետ կամ օգտագործում եք, կամ վերարտադրում, կամ վերահրապարակում եք այստեղ պարունակվող տեղեկույթը այլ իրավադատության տարածքներից։
 Եթե ձեզ պետք է որոշակի բնույթի խորհուրդ (օրինակ, բժշկական, իրավաբանական, ֆինանսական, ռիսկի կառավարման բնագավառներում) խնդրում ենք դիմել մասնագետի, ով արտոնված է կամ համապատասխան որակավորումով գիտելիքներ ունի այդ բնագավառում։ 


URL: https://hi.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AA%E0%A5%80%E0%A4%A1%E0%A4%BF%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%BE:%E0%A4%B8%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%A7%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%A3_%E0%A4%85%E0%A4%B8%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B5%E0%A5%80%E0%A4%95%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%A3

Content:  –   –   –   –  
 
 विकिपीडिया एक वेब आधारित सहयोग-प्राप्त ज्ञानकोश है, अर्थात्, यह मानव ज्ञान का आम संसाधन विकसित करने के लिए व्यक्तियों तथा समूहों का एक स्वैच्छिक संगठन है। इस परियोजना की संरचना अंतर्जाल संयोजन के साथ किसी भी व्यक्ति को इसकी सामग्री परिवर्तित करने की अनुमति देता है। कृपया यह ध्यान रखें कि यह आवश्यक नहीं है कि यहाँ पाई गई सामग्री की विशेषज्ञों द्वारा सही तथा विश्वसनीय जानकारी देने के लिए समीक्षा की गई हो।
 इसका यह तात्पर्य नहीं है कि आपको विकिपीडिया पर मूल्यवान तथा सही जानकारी नहीं मिलेगी; अधिकांशतः यह सही ही होगी। हालांकि,   किसी भी लेख की सामग्री को हटाया जा सकता है, उत्पात का शिकार हो सकती है अथवा ऐसे व्यक्ति द्वारा बदली जा सकती है जो उस संगत क्षेत्र में ज्ञान की अवस्था से भिन्न विचार रखता हो। ध्यान दें कि अधिकतर अन्य विकिपीडिया तथा सन्दर्भ कार्यों में भी   होते हैं।
 हम लेखों के विश्वसनीय संस्करण चुनने तथा हाइलाइट करने के तरीकों पर कार्य कर रहे हैं। हमारा सम्पादकों का सक्रिय समुदाय नयी तथा बदलती सामग्री पर निगाह रखने के लिये   तथा   फीड जैसे औजारों का प्रयोग करता है। हालाँकि विकिपीडिया की समीक्षा समान रूप से नहीं की जाती; यद्यपि पाठक गलतियों को सुधार सकते हैं तथा कैजुअल   में शामिल हो सकते हैं तथापि उन्हें ऐसा करने का कोई कानूनी कर्तव्य नहीं है तथा इस प्रकार यहाँ पढ़ी गयी सारी जानकारी किसी उद्देश्य या किसी प्रयोग के लिये बिना किसी क्रियान्वित फिटनेस वारण्टी के है। यहाँ तक कि जो लेख अनौपचारिक पीयर समीक्षा अथवा   प्रक्रिया से गुजरे है बाद में इससे पहले कि आप उन्हें देखें हो सकता है कि वो अनुपयुक्त रूप से सम्पादित किये गये हों।
 
 कृपया यह सुनिश्चित कर लें कि यहाँ उपलब्ध की गयी जानकारी मुक्त रूप से उपलब्ध कराई जा रही है तथा आपके एवं इस साइट के मालिकों या सदस्यों, सर्वर के मालिकों, एकल विकिपीडिया योगदानकर्ता, कोई परियोजना प्रबन्धक, सिस्टम ऑपरेटर या कोई अन्य जो इस परियोजना या इसकी किसी बन्धु परियोजना से   के मध्य आपके किसी प्रकार के दावे हेतु किसी प्रकार का ऍग्रीमेण्ट या अनुबन्ध नहीं हो रहा। आपको इस साइट से कोई सामग्री कॉपी करने हेतु एक सीमित लाइसेंस दिया जा रहा है; यह विकिपीडिया की तरफ से या इसके किसी एजेण्ट, सदस्य किसी अनुबन्धित या अतिरिक्त अनुबन्धित दायित्व को बनाता या क्रियान्वित नहीं करता।
  विकिपीडिया के   (CC-BY-SA) तथा   (GFDL) के अन्तर्गत ही है। इसके अतिरिक्त विकिपीडिया से जुड़ा कोई भी व्यक्ति किसी सामग्री में किसी के द्वारा परिवर्तन, सम्पादन, संशोधन तथा निकाले जाने हेतु जिम्मेदार नहीं होगा।
 कोई भी ट्रेडमार्क, सर्विस मार्क, साँझे/संयुक्त मार्क, डिजाइन अधिकार अथवा इसी प्रकार के अधिकार जो कि विकिपीडिया के लेखों में व्यवस्थित किये जाते हैं, प्रयोग किये जाते हैं अथवा उद्धृत किये जाते हैं वे उनके क्रमशः मालिकों की मिल्कियत हैं। उनके यहाँ प्रयोग का अर्थ यह नहीं है कि आप उनका समान अथवा समान जानकारीपूर्ण प्रयोग के अतिरिक्त अन्य कार्यों हेतु प्रयोग कर सकें जैसा कि इन विकिपीडिया लेखों के मूल लेखकों के द्वारा CC-BY-SA तथा GFDL लाइसेंस स्कीमों में वर्णित है। जब तक अन्यथा न कहा जाय विकिपीडिया तथा विकिमीडिया साइटें न तो इन अधिकारों के मालिकों से किसी प्रकार सम्बद्ध हैं और न ही समर्थित हैं अतः विकिपीडिया किसी अन्य रूप से सुरक्षित सामग्री के प्रयोग हेतु अधिकार प्रदान नहीं कर सकता। आपके द्वारा इस प्रकार या   का उपयोग आपके अपनी जिम्मेदारी पर है।
 विकिपीडिया में ऐसी सामग्री है जिसमें एक पहचान योग्य व्यक्ति को चित्रित किया गया हो जो जीवित या हाल ही में मर चुका हो। जीवित या हालिया मृत व्यक्ति के चित्रों का उपयोग कुछ अधिकार-क्षेत्रों में कॉपीराइट स्थिति के अलावा व्यक्तिगत अधिकारों से सम्बद्ध कानूनों द्वारा प्रतिबन्धित है। इस प्रकार की सामग्री के उपयोग से पहले कृपया यह सुनिश्चित कर लें कि आपको आपके आशयित प्रयोग से सम्बद्ध क्षेत्र में कानूनन इनके प्रयोग का अधिकार हो।  
 विकिपीडिया पर उपलब्ध सामग्री का प्रकाशन आप जिस देश में यह जानकारी देख रहे हैं, उस देश या क्षेत्र के कानून का उल्लंघन हो सकती है। विकिपीडिया डाटाबेस   के   प्रान्त के एक सर्वर में संगृहीत है तथा इसका प्रबन्धन/व्यवस्थापन स्थानीय तथा संघीय कानून में प्रदत्त सुरक्षा सन्दर्भानुसार होता है। आपके देश के कानून इस प्रकार के वक्तत्व्य या वितरण की सुरक्षा या अनुमति शायद न दे सकें। विकिपीडिया किसी कानून के उल्लंघन को प्रोत्साहित नहीं करता तथा इस प्रकार के किसी कानून के उल्लंघन हेतु जिम्मेदार नहीं ठहराया जा सकता चाहे आप इस डोमेन को लिंक कर रहे हों, यहाँ उपलब्ध सामग्री को प्रयोग कर रहे हों, पुनर्निर्मित अथवा पुनर्प्रकाशित कर रहे हों।
 यदि आपको विशिष्ट सलाह (उदाहरण के लिये, चिकित्सकीय, कानूनी, वित्तीय अथवा रिस्क प्रबन्धन आदि) चाहिये तो कृपया किसी व्यावसायिक विशेषज्ञ की सलाह लें जो कि उस क्षेत्र में लाइसेसं प्राप्त अथवा विशेष ज्ञानी हो।


URL: https://haw.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:N%C4%81_a%E2%80%98o_%E2%80%98ana_laul%C4%81

Content: E nānā i ka moʻolelo ma   (i ka ʻōlelo Pelekania), ke ʻoluʻolu.


URL: https://gu.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E0%AA%B5%E0%AA%BF%E0%AA%95%E0%AA%BF%E0%AA%AA%E0%AB%80%E0%AA%A1%E0%AA%BF%E0%AA%AF%E0%AA%BE:General_disclaimer

Content: 
 Wikipedia is an online open-content collaborative encyclopedia; that is, a voluntary association of individuals and groups working to develop a common resource of human knowledge. The structure of the project allows anyone with an Internet connection to alter its content. Please be advised that nothing found here has necessarily been reviewed by people with the expertise required to provide you with complete, accurate, or reliable information.
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will. However,   The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized, or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields. Note that most other encyclopedias and reference works  .
 Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content. However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever. Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops, or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers, or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (CC-BY-SA) and the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify, or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, or similar rights that are mentioned, used, or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licensing schemes. Unless otherwise stated, Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed by, nor affiliated with, any of the holders of any such rights, and as such, Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Wikipedia contains material which may portray an identifiable person who is alive or recently-deceased. The use of images of living or recently-deceased individuals is, in some jurisdictions, restricted by laws pertaining to  , independent from their copyright status. Before using these types of content, please ensure that you have the right to use it under the laws which apply in the circumstances of your intended use.  
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on servers in the United States of America, and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution. Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws, and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain, or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management), please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://gan.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:%E5%85%8D%E8%B2%AC%E8%81%B2%E6%98%8E

Content: 維基百科係網上內容公開嗰一部合作百科全書，係發展人類同享知識嗰志願組織。 箇項計劃嗰結構讓任何上到互聯網嗰人修改佢嗰內容。 請倷明白：箇首冇什哩真嗰係拕專業人士審過嗰；東西未必完備、準或者可靠。
 That is not to say that you will not find valuable and accurate information in Wikipedia; much of the time you will.  However,    The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalized or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.
 We are working on ways to select and highlight reliable versions of articles.  Our active community of editors uses tools such as the   and   feeds to monitor new and changing content.  However, Wikipedia is not uniformly peer reviewed; while readers may correct errors or engage in casual  , they have no legal duty to do so and thus all information read here is without any implied warranty of fitness for any purpose or use whatsoever.  Even articles that have been vetted by informal peer review or   processes may later have been edited inappropriately, just before you view them.
 
 倷=== 冇合同；有限嗰牌照 / No contract; limited license ===
Please make sure that you understand that the information provided here is being provided freely, and that no kind of agreement or contract is created between you and the owners or users of this site, the owners of the servers upon which it is housed, the individual Wikipedia contributors, any project administrators, sysops or anyone else who is in   with this project or sister projects subject to your claims against them directly. You are being granted a limited license to copy anything from this site; it does not create or imply any contractual or extracontractual liability on the part of Wikipedia or any of its agents, members, organizers or other users.
 There is   regarding your use or modification of this information beyond the   (GFDL); neither is anyone at Wikipedia responsible should someone change, edit, modify or remove any information that you may post on Wikipedia or any of its associated projects.
 Any of the trademarks, service marks, collective marks, design rights, personality rights or similar rights that are mentioned, used or cited in the articles of the Wikipedia encyclopedia are the property of their respective owners. Their use here does not imply that you may use them for any other purpose other than for the same or a similar informational use as contemplated by the original authors of these Wikipedia articles under the GFDL licensing scheme. Unless otherwise stated Wikipedia and Wikimedia sites are neither endorsed nor affiliated with any of the holders of any such rights and as such Wikipedia cannot grant any rights to use any otherwise protected materials. Your use of any such or similar incorporeal property is at your own risk.
 Publication of information found in Wikipedia may be in violation of the laws of the country or jurisdiction from where you are viewing this information. The Wikipedia database is stored on a server in the State of   in the  , and is maintained in reference to the protections afforded under local and federal law. Laws in your country or jurisdiction may not protect or allow the same kinds of speech or distribution.  Wikipedia does not encourage the violation of any laws; and cannot be responsible for any violations of such laws, should you link to this domain or use, reproduce, or republish the information contained herein.
 If you need specific advice (for example, medical, legal, financial, or risk management) please seek a professional who is licensed or knowledgeable in that area.


URL: https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/%EC%9C%84%ED%82%A4%EB%B0%B1%EA%B3%BC:%EB%A9%B4%EC%B1%85_%EC%A1%B0%ED%95%AD

Content: 
 위키백과는 온라인에 의해 내용이 개방되는 백과사전입니다. 다시 말해 위키백과에 참여하는 개인이나 단체는 인간이 창조하고 발견한 지식을 한 곳에 모으는 노력을 함께하고 있습니다.  과  를 쓸 수 있는 모든 사람은 누구나 위키백과에 참여하여 글을 쓰고 수록된 글을 보충 또는 수정할 수 있습니다. 그러므로 여기에 수록된 개별 분야에 관한 어떠한 글도 전문가에 의해 특별히 검토되지 않기 때문에 어떤 주제에 대해서도 정확하고 또는 신뢰할 수 있는 정보를 제공한다고 볼 수는 없습니다.
 그렇다고 해서 여러분께서 위키백과에서 가치 있고 정확한 정보를 얻을 수 없다는 것을 의미하지는 않습니다.   여기에 수록된 정보는 어느 사람에 의해서든지 조만간 수정되거나 변경 또는 심지어 훼손될 수 있습니다. 그리고 글을 쓴 참여자의 입장이나 의견이 여러분이 관심이 있고 정보를 얻고자 하는 특정 분야의 지적 수준에 부합되지 않을 수도 있습니다.
 작가, 참여자, 후원자, 관리자 혹은 위키백과와 관련된 어떠한 사람도 이 웹사이트의 페이지에 수록된 또는 링크된 정보를 여러분이 사용하는 것에 어떠한 책임도 지지 않습니다. 위키백과가 제공하는 정보는 여러분께서 자유로이 그리고 무료로 사용하신다는 것을 재삼 인식하여야 하며, 따라서 여러분과 이 웹사이트의 소유자 또는 특정 사용자 사이에서는 어떠한 종류의 허가나 동의 또는 접촉도 불필요합니다. 이 웹사이트가 등록된 서버의 소유자, 개별 참여자, 관리자 혹은 이 프로젝트 또는 자매 프로젝트와 관련된 어느 사람도 여러분의 직접적 항의로부터 유보됩니다. 여러분은 이 웹사이트에 수록된 내용을  에 따라 제한적으로 복사할 수 있으며 이를 필요에 따라 임의로 사용할 수 있습니다.
 위키백과에 사용 또는 인용된 등록상표, 서비스표식, 조합표식, 디자인권, 개별권 혹은 이와 유사한 권리 등은 해당 유동재산의 소유자의 권리에 속합니다. 위키백과에 글을 쓴 참여자가  의 보호를 받고 있을 수도 있는 이와 같은 종류의 유동재산을 사용하였을 때 이는  에 규정된 이와 관련된 내용 이외의 다른 목적으로 여러분이 사용할 수 있다는 것을 의미하지 않습니다. 위키백과 그리고 위키미디어의 웹사이트는 별도로 언급하지 않는 한 (이를테면   혹은  ) 저작권과 직접 혹은 간접적으로 관련된 사항을 확인해 드리지 않습니다.
 위키백과는 저작권의 보호를 받고 있는 자료가 수록되지 않도록 각별한 주의를 하지만, 때에 따라서는 저작권에 저촉된 내용이 위키백과의 문서에 수록되어 있을 수도 있습니다. 만일 여러분께서 이를 모르고 사용하였을 경우에 따르는 법적 문제는 전적으로 여러분 자신이 책임을 지게 됩니다.
 위키백과에 수록된 정보는 여러분이 현재 위치하고 있는 국가의 법에 저촉될 수도 있습니다. 여러분이 위치한 국가의 법은  의 법 또는  의 원칙에 따른 표현의 자유 보장을 넓은 의미에서 인정하지 않을 수도 있습니다. 위키백과는 여러분이 위키백과에 링크함으로써 혹은 여기에 포함된 어떤 정보를 사용함으로써 생길 수도 있는 법적 위반에 대해 어떠한 책임도 지지 않습니다.
 만일 여러분께서 특별한 분야(이를테면 의료, 법, 경제)에 조언이 필요할 경우, 이 분야의 전문가를 찾기를 권장합니다.


